
[Transcriber's Note:

Bold text denoted with =equal signs=, italic text denoted with
_underscores_.]

[Illustration:
[Hand written text:]
Yours sincerly,
A. J. Downing]

  STATE OF NEW YORK--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
  Twenty-Fourth Annual Report--Vol. 2--Part II




  THE

  PEACHES OF NEW YORK

  BY

  U. P. HEDRICK

  ASSISTED BY

  G. H. HOWE
  O. M. TAYLOR
  C. B. TUBERGEN


  Report of the New York Agricultural Experiment Station for the Year 1916

  II


  ALBANY
  J. B. LYON COMPANY, PRINTERS
  1917




  NEW YORK AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION,
  GENEVA, N. Y., _January 31, 1917_.


  _To the Honorable Board of Control of the New York Agricultural
  Experiment Station_:

GENTLEMEN:--I have the honor to transmit herewith the manuscript of
the fifth in our series of fruit-publications, to be known as "The
Peaches of New York," and to constitute Part II of the report of this
institution for 1916.

Peach-growing is an important industry in the State of New York. In
certain counties the production of this fruit has been a main factor in
the well-known prosperity of many owners of peach-orchards. Moreover,
the peach, when at its best, is a luscious article of food and adds
greatly not only to the enjoyment, but to the healthfulness, of our
diet.

The commercial and dietary importance of the peach is, therefore, the
justification for the preparation of this volume.

Because the numerous varieties of peaches differ greatly in quality and
in their adaptation to varying conditions, a comprehensive study of
those varieties which are, or which may be, grown in this State seemed
greatly worth while.

It is with a feeling of satisfaction, even of pride, that I submit to
you the accompanying manuscript. Its preparation reflects great credit
upon Prof. Hedrick and his associates and upon the makers of the plates.

  W. H. JORDAN,

  _Director_.




PREFACE


The present volume is the fifth in the plan of the New York
Agricultural Experiment Station to make a more or less complete record
of all of the different fruits grown in this region. This work differs
from the preceding fruit-books but little or not at all in nature
and purposes, yet a statement of its contents, even though it be
almost identical with that in the prefaces of the preceding volumes,
is necessary for those who may not have the other books and may be a
convenience to those who have all of the series.

The title implies that _The Peaches of New York_ is written for the
confines of a state; but all varieties of the peach grown in North
America, as well as many known only in other continents, Europe
especially, have been considered, under the supposition that all might
be grown in New York and are therefore of interest to the peach-growers
of the State. Broadly speaking, then, the design is to make the book as
complete a record as possible of the development of the peach, wherever
grown, up to this time.

The book contains: An account of the history and uses of the peach; a
discussion of the botanical characters of the species of cultivated
peaches; an account of the peach-regions and of peach-growing in New
York with the most important statistics relating to this fruit; and,
lastly and in greatest detail, the synonymy, bibliography, economic
status, and full descriptions of all the most important cultivated
peaches, with briefer notices of varieties of minor importance and of
those appearing in peach-literature which are now no longer grown.
In foot-notes running through the text, biographical sketches are
published of the persons who have done most in America toward improving
the peach. Incidentally, all that was thought would be helpful in
breeding peaches was included. So, too, whatever appeared to be of
interest to students of ecology has been given a place.

As in the preceding books, color-plates occupy prominent places in this
volume. Pains and expense have not been spared in the attempt to make
the plates the best possible with the present knowledge of reproduction
in colors. All who have seen the plates in this and the first four
fruit-books of the series will agree that the reproductions of peaches
are more accurate than those of the apples, grapes, plums or cherries,
and yet these are not as exact as might be wished. Although most
carefully selected, an illustration of one or two fruits does not give
an adequate picture of a variety. Neither does the camera take colors
quite as the eye sees them nor can the plate-maker quite reproduce what
the camera takes. The illustrations are of life-size as the peaches
grow on the grounds of this Station and represent specimens of average
size and color. The fruits, as shown in the plates, look small for the
reason that a flat picture of a round object minifies size.

In all of these fruit-books it has been difficult to decide what
varieties merit color-plates and full descriptions. Briefly, the choice
of sorts to be illustrated and described in detail has been determined
by the following considerations: (1) By the value of the variety for
home or commercial orchards; (2) the probable value if the peach is a
new sort on probation; (3) its desirability as a parent in breeding
new peaches or to show combinations of varieties, to illustrate
new characters, or to show the range in variation--in a word to
enlighten the peach-breeder; (4) not a few varieties are described and
illustrated to show the trend of peach-evolution--for their historical
value; (5) to show relationships of varieties.

The peach is profoundly influenced by soil, climate and culture, and a
discussion of its status is not complete without taking full account of
the environment in which it is growing. For this reason, chiefly, the
peach-regions and peach-growing in New York are discussed as fully as
space permits. This part of the book is designed, also, to serve the
prospective peach-planter in this State in the selection of locations
and soils and in the culture of the peach. Since the cultivation of any
plant changes from year to year, though, experiment station bulletins
and circulars and treatises on the culture of the peach should supply
growers of this fruit with better information on the year-to-year
management of the peach-plantation.

The botany of the peach, as compared with its congeners, the plum
and the cherry, is simple, indeed, and is well agreed upon by
botanical writers, so that this book may be said to be almost wholly a
horticultural one. Yet the few pages devoted to the botany of the peach
may make plainer, to the horticulturist at least, the botany of this
fruit.

The chief contribution _The Peaches of New York_ makes to pomology
is in the descriptions of varieties it contains. All who grow or
use peaches are dependent on descriptions of fruit and tree for the
identification of varieties. From a well-written description one should
get an exact mental picture of the fruit--we try to present such a
pen-picture. With a few exceptions the descriptions of major varieties
have been made from peaches growing on the Station grounds, though in
many cases fruits from several localities have been compared with those
grown at home.

The fruits, it must be said at once, have been described with other
ends in view than identification. Chief of these is the effort to set
forth the elementary characters, or unit-characters, of the peach. It
is now certain that the characters of plants are independent entities
thrown into various relationships with each other in individual plants.
On this conception of unit-characters the improvement of plants is
founded. An important part of the work in describing fruits has been
to discover what seem to be unit-characters in peaches, thereby aiding
in building a foundation in breeding peaches. To improve the peach we
must combine the characters of species and varieties; we must know what
these are before we can rearrange them in an improved peach.

In the marked attention paid to the improvement of plants, following
the work of Mendel and others, the peach is bound to receive
consideration. Never was information more needed in regard to the
processes that have brought peaches from their primitive condition to
their present perfection. We have done our utmost to give all that
could be learned of the origin and history of varieties with the hope
that such knowledge may be helpful to those who are trying to improve
the peach.

We wish again to call attention to the great value of definite
knowledge regarding the soils, climates and other environmental
conditions under which species and varieties of fruits thrive.
It is obvious to all thinking pomologists and biologists that,
when the ecological conditions under which the several fruits
and their many varieties are grown can be accurately specified,
valuable generalizations can be made regarding life-zones and
plant-distribution. In _The Peaches of New York_, as in the preceding
books, we state as accurately as possible the regions in which and
the conditions under which, species and varieties of the peach are
successfully grown.

So few species have been considered in _The Peaches of New York_ that
we have had no need to refer to codes of botanical nomenclature. In
the use of horticultural names, lacking a better code, we have kept
before us the revised rules of the American Pomological Society though
in many cases we have not seen fit to follow these rules as the changes
required by their strict observance would augment rather than diminish
confusion.

The references given are those that have been used in ascertaining the
history and the economic status or in verifying the description of
the variety that follows. All of the synonyms created by pomologists
to whose works we have had access have been noted but in no case have
we published synonyms quoted by other writers. The work of reading
references and seeking out synonyms is a tremendous one, involving
nearly three years' work for several persons. We hope that this work
sets straight in high degree the great confusion in the names of
peaches, but that we, no matter how painstaking, could bring perfection
out of chaos, no one could expect.

Again we call attention to the biographical sketches found in the
foot-notes. Some men in every profession surpass their fellows in
true greatness. Such men there are in pomology, and a knowledge of
their career is indispensable to a full comprehension of the industry
of growing fruit. In the conquest of America we have honored, so
far, only the men who have expressed their energy in conquering the
mines, the forests, the fisheries and to a small degree those who have
developed the soils; we have shamefully neglected the great men who
have developed our native fruits and vegetables and adapted to the
conditions of the New World the agricultural products of the Old World.
The brief biographical sketches in these fruit-books are written in an
effort to give in some measure the credit and honor due to those who
have improved fruits.

In the preparation of _The Peaches of New York_, besides those whose
names appear on the title page, I am indebted to R. D. Anthony, for
reading proof; to the Station editor, F. H. Hall, for his assistance;
to the Zeese-Wilkinson Company, New York City, for the beautiful
color-plates of peaches; and to the J. B. Lyon Company, Albany, New
York, for good workmanship in printing the book.

  U. P. HEDRICK,

  _Horticulturist, New York Agricultural Experiment Station_.




TABLE OF CONTENTS


                 PAGE
  PREFACE                                                            v

  INDEX TO ILLUSTRATIONS                                            xi

  CHAPTER I.--HISTORY OF THE PEACH                                   1

  CHAPTER II--BOTANICAL AND HORTICULTURAL CLASSIFICATIONS
    OF THE PEACH                                                    68

  CHAPTER III.--COMMERCIAL PEACH-GROWING IN AMERICA                 98

  CHAPTER IV.--PEACH-GROWING IN NEW YORK                           131

  CHAPTER V.--LEADING VARIETIES OF PEACHES                         178

  CHAPTER VI.--MINOR VARIETIES OF PEACHES                          291

  BIBLIOGRAPHY, REFERENCES AND ABBREVIATIONS                       499

  INDEX                                                            511


INDEX TO ILLUSTRATIONS

  PORTRAIT OF ANDREW JACKSON DOWNING                    _Frontispiece_

                                                           FACING PAGE
  DESCRIPTION OF A PEACH                                            76

  MAP SHOWING PEACH REGIONS IN NEW YORK                            134


  VARIETIES

  ADMIRAL DEWEY                                                    178

  ALEXANDER                                                        180

  ALTON                                                            180

  ARP                                                              182

  BELLE                                                            184

  BEQUETTE FREE                                                    184

  BERENICE                                                         186

  BLOOD CLING                                                      188

  BLOOD LEAF                                                       188

  BRIGDON                                                          190

  CANADA                                                           190

  CAPTAIN EDE                                                      192

  CARMAN                                                           194

  CHAIRS                                                           194

  CHAMPION                                                         196

  CHILI                                                            198

  CHINESE CLING                                                    198

  CLIMAX                                                           200

  CROSBY                                                           202

  DAVIDSON                                                         204

  EARLY CRAWFORD                                                   206

  EARLY YORK                                                       208

  EDGEMONT                                                         208

  ELBERTA                                                          210

  ENGLE                                                            212

  EUREKA                                                           212

  FAMILY FAVORITE                                                  214

  FITZGERALD                                                       214

  FOSTER                                                           216

  GENERAL LEE                                                      216

  GEORGE IV                                                        218

  GOLD DROP                                                        220

  GOVERNOR HOGG                                                    220

  GREENSBORO                                                       222

  HALE EARLY                                                       222

  HEATH CLING                                                      224

  HEATH FREE                                                       226

  HILEY                                                            226

  HYNES                                                            228

  ILLINOIS                                                         230

  IMPERIAL                                                         230

  IRON MOUNTAIN                                                    232

  J. H. HALE                                                       234

  JENNIE WORTHEN                                                   236

  KALAMAZOO                                                        236

  KENTUCKY (NECTARINE)                                              84

  LAMONT                                                           238

  LATE CRAWFORD                                                    240

  LATE RARERIPE                                                    242

  LEMON FREE                                                       244

  LOLA                                                             246

  MAMIE ROSS                                                       246

  MAY LEE                                                          248

  MORRIS WHITE                                                     250

  MOUNTAIN ROSE                                                    250

  MUIR                                                             252

  NEWTON (NECTARINE)                                                84

  NIAGARA                                                          254

  OLDMIXON CLING                                                   254

  OLDMIXON FREE                                                    256

  PALLAS                                                           258

  PEARSON                                                          260

  PEENTO                                                           260

  [Reproduced from Transactions of the Horticultural Society of
      London IV: 512. 1822.]

  PROLIFIC                                                         262

  _PRUNUS DAVIDIANA_                                                86

  RAY                                                              262

  RED CHEEK MELOCOTON                                              264

  REEVES                                                           266

  RIVERS                                                           266

  ROCHESTER                                                        268

  ST. JOHN                                                         270

  SALWEY                                                           272

  SCHUMAKER                                                        274

  SMOCK                                                            274

  STEVENS                                                          276

  STUMP                                                            278

  SUMMER SNOW                                                      278

  SURPASSE                                                         280

  THURBER                                                          280

  TRIANA                                                           282

  TRIUMPH                                                          282

  WADDELL                                                          284

  WAGER                                                            286

  WATERLOO                                                         288

  WHEATLAND                                                        288

  YELLOW RARERIPE                                                  290


  PEACH BLOSSOMS

  ALTON (LARGE FLOWERED)                                            78

  BLOOD LEAF                                                        78

  CHINESE FREE (MEDIUM FLOWERED)                                    80

  CROSBY (SMALL FLOWERED)                                           80

  KENTUCKY (NECTARINE)                                              82

  SUMMER SNOW (WHITE FLOWERED)                                      82




THE PEACHES OF NEW YORK




CHAPTER I

HISTORY OF THE PEACH


The history of the peach follows step by step the history of
agriculture. The beginning of agriculture, as depicted in the
traditions and embellished in the poetry of ancient peoples, was the
creation of useful plants by some Divinity. But, counting unwritten
history and poetic fancy as naught and coming to recorded facts--those
of history as we now have it--the beginning of agriculture is marked by
two recorded events. The first occurred 2700 years B. C. when Emperor
Chenming, Ruler of China, instituted ceremonies for the sowing of
various vegetables and grains. The second event was the building of the
Great Pyramid of Gizeh by some ruler who lorded it over Egypt between
2500 to 2000 years B. C. and who ornamented his handiwork with drawings
of figs.

Yet these early records in China and Egypt were not made at the
beginnings of agriculture in those countries. Plants were undoubtedly
cultivated centuries before it occurred to Emperor Chenming that rice,
wheat and other crops deserved ceremonial sowings. The pyramids of
Gizeh could only have been built by an organized, civilized people
with cultivated fields on which to levy toll for the dormant season
and lean years--pyramids could hardly be raised by a people forced to
skim a day-to-day existence from wild plants. "Art is long and time
is fleeting" in agriculture, and between the obscure beginnings of
this ancient art, when naked men following the chase began to vary a
meat diet with fruits, grains and roots plucked from the wild, and the
regular cultivation of useful plants, as implied by these old records
from China and Egypt, there are many steps and thousands and thousands
of years.

If, then, the history of the peach begins with the history of
agriculture, and the beginnings of agriculture are lost in the
obscurity of antiquity, it is useless to speculate as to how long the
peach has been cultivated. The statements of the early historians as to
the age of the domesticated peach are so at variance that they serve
only to confuse. Indeed, were we to attempt to bring into agreement the
diverse assertions of historians we should never know even the place
of origin of the peach; for it is upon data from botany that we must
depend most in determining the habitat of our fruit. This subject we
now come to discuss in detail.


THE ORIGIN OF THE PEACH

Names frequently breed misunderstandings and in the case of the peach a
fine brood of mistakes as to the origin of the fruit has come from the
name. As all know, "peach" and most of its equivalents in the countries
of Europe are derived from "Persia" and this has given rise to the
supposition that the original habitat of the fruit is Persia. The
ancient authors who mention the peach, as Theophrastus, Columella and
Pliny, agree that the home of the peach was Persia and, even until our
own time, to be written in any of these worthies is proof conclusive.
While negative evidence counts for but little, the notion is so firmly
fixed that some, at least, of the races of peaches are Persian products
that it seems best to clear the way for positive evidence by first
proving that the first home of the peach was not Persia.

Persia is pictured as a land of fruits before agriculture had begun in
Greece and Rome. The quince and the pomegranate probably originated
here and, with the olive, grape, almond, and, to the north at least,
the cherry and plum, have been cultivated from three to four thousand
years.

At very early times the quince, pomegranate, olive and grape were
introduced from Persia, according to De Candolle, still our best
authority, into Greece and Rome and even the cherry and plum, from
countries to the north if not from Persia, reached southern Europe long
before the peach. It seems certain, as De Candolle suggests,[1] that
if the peach had been a native of Persia, had it existed there during
all time, so beautiful and so delectable a fruit would have been taken
earlier into Asia Minor and Greece. As gratifying to all the senses by
which we judge fruits as any other product of the orchard, as easily
transported and propagated as any--more so than most--it cannot be
believed that the other fruits named would have been given preference
over the peach by conquerors or travelers carrying Persian luxuries to
westward countries.

Moreover, as De Candolle further points out, the several Hebrew
and Sanskrit peoples did not speak in sacred or vulgar writings of
the peach as they did many times of the olive, quince, grape and
pomegranate. Yet these peoples radiated from the valleys of the
Euphrates and were at all times in close communication with Persia.
Since, according to the authoritative De Candolle, Xenophon, who
retreated with the ten thousand 401 B. C., does not mention the peach,
this fruit probably did not reach Greece until Alexander's expedition
and was first mentioned by Theophrastus 332 B. C. (if the fruit
mentioned by Theophrastus is the peach) and did not reach Rome until
after the beginning of the Christian era.

The more one examines historical records the more evident it becomes
that Greek and Roman writers assumed that the habitat of the peach,
which they called the Persian apple, was Persia because it came
thence to their countries. Ancient historians very commonly and very
confusingly made the assumption that the region from which a plant
product came to their country was its first habitat.

The best means of establishing the origin of a plant is to discover in
what country it grows spontaneously. This would be a simple matter,
indeed, if one could be sure that a given plant found growing wild
is not an escape from cultivation. Here is the trouble in the case
of the peach. According to the botanists the tree is now growing
wild in Persia, as it is in nearby countries, and for that matter in
other parts of the Old World and in many places in the New World. The
painstaking De Candolle, who has carefully sifted the evidence of the
leading botanists until his time of writing, 1882, concludes that the
peach has never been truly wild in Persia. An examination of the works
of botanists writing since De Candolle's study of the subject does not
show that any offers proof that the peach was originally wild in Persia.

Without going into the matter further it seems safe to say that the
Greek and Roman writers were at fault in naming Persia as the home
of the peach. To summarize: its late distribution, as compared with
that of other Persian fruits argues against such an origin; philology,
which usually affords indications touching the habitat of a species, is
against the Persian theory of origin since neither Hebrew nor Sanskrit
names the peach; lastly, botany, the most direct means of discovering
the geographic origin of a plant, offers no positive evidence that
Persia is the home of the peach. The fallacy that the peach comes from
Persia, written in nearly all horticultural and botanical works for
2000 years, now being disposed of, we may take up the claim of China
that the peach is another of its great gifts to the world.

A survey of the subject is convincing that the peach comes from China.
Necessarily, such a survey must be brief, yet it is important that no
doubt be left as to the origin of the peach, thus freeing pomological
literature from the train of misunderstandings following the current
opinion that part of our peaches, at least, come from Persia. The terms
"Persian peaches" and the "Persian race of peaches" are misleading and
should be discarded. Data from botany and history furnish the chief
proofs that the fruit of this discussion is of Chinese origin.

Botany and history are a hard team to drive but when the two do travel
together in determining the origin of a plant the matter, as a rule,
is settled. Does botany accord with history in placing the original
peach in China? Botanists and explorers from first to last agree
that the peach is, and long has been, wild in China but there is no
agreement as to the nature of its wildness. Some say it is indigenous
and others that it may be an escape from cultivation. The peach runs
wild so quickly in countries to which it is adapted that it is almost
impossible to say, from the evidence to be found, whether it is an
original or only a naturalized inhabitant of China. But it seems more
nearly to approach a truly feral condition in China than in any other
country unless it be America and all know that in the New World it is
an introduced plant.

Of the botanists and explorers who report finding the peach wild in
China, Frank N. Meyer[2] of the United States Department of Agriculture
is most explicit. Meyer, in sending seeds of wild peaches from China,
accompanies them with the following remarks:

"40001. Wild peaches having larger fruits than the ordinary wild ones,
said to come from near Tze Wu, to the south of Sianfu, but some also
probably collected from trees in gardens which were raised from wild
seeds. When seen wild this peach generally assumes a low bush form of
spreading habit; when planted in gardens and attended to, it grows
up into a small tree, reaching a height of 12 to 20 feet, with a
smooth trunk of dark mahogany-brown color. The leaves are always much
smaller and more slender than in cultivated varieties, while their
color is much darker green. They seem to be somewhat less subject to
various diseases than the cultivated sorts and they are most prolific
bearers, although the fruit is of very little value on account of its
smallness and lack of flavor. In gardens around Sianfu this wild peach
is utilized as a stock for improved varieties. It is also grown as an
ornamental; said to be literally covered in spring with multitudes of
shell-pink flowers."

"40002. Wild peaches, occurring in the foothills of the higher
mountains at Tsing Ling Kang, Shensi, at altitudes from 2000 to 5000
feet, generally found at the edges of loess cliffs and on rocky slopes.
There is a great deal of variation to be observed as regards size and
shape of leaves, density of foliage and general habits."

"40003. Wild peaches found on a mountain side, near Pai dja dien,
Shensi, at an elevation of 4000 feet; these small trees and bushes had
borne such a heavy crop that the ground beneath them was covered with a
layer, a few inches thick, of the small, yellowish, hairy fruits. The
local inhabitants didn't consider them worth collecting even, and they
were rotting and drying up."

"40004. Wild peaches occurring as tall shrubs in loess cliffs, at the
Tibetan frontier, Kagoba, Kansu, at elevations of 6000-8000 feet.
Save for some children who eat these wild peaches, they are otherwise
considered worthless wild fruit. Local name _Yeh t'ao_, meaning 'wild
peach,' and _Mao t'ao_, meaning 'hairy peach.'"

"40005. Wild peaches found on stony mountain slopes in a wild, very
sparsely populated country, near Kwa tsa, on Siku River, Kansu. No
fruit trees whatsoever are cultivated by the local settlers in the
mountains, and the way some of these peach bushes grow excludes them
from ever having been brought there by any man or even any quadruped;
only birds might have transported them."

In a letter to the author,[3] Mr. Meyer says further:

"Where did I find the peach wild? Well, I first came across it in loess
cliffs in southern Shensi at an elevation of about 4000 feet above sea.
Later on I found plenty of them in central Shensi, in southern Kansu
and in the Tibetan borderland, up to 7000 feet elevation above sea. All
the plants I found were freestone types, and according to the natives
they all have shell-pink flowers. In the mountains of the Chekiang
Province, however, I found a type which seems to be clingstone."

In still another letter sent me from the United States Department of
Agriculture, Mr. Meyer says:

"It is about one month ago since I wrote you last, and so far as real
distance is concerned, I have not advanced much, but we went over some
very interesting territory and I was lucky enough to discover the
_real wild peach_, growing in loess ravines some 2-3 days to the East
from here, near a village called _Tchao yu_. The plants are of smaller
dimensions than our cultivated strains, and the stones are somewhat
different as regards shape and grooves, but still on the whole there is
little difference between a very poor seedling-peach and this wild one.

These wild peaches are locally cut for firewood, for the fruits are
pretty near inedible, being small and having hard, sourish flesh. They
grow at the edges of deep loess ravines and on the steep, sloping
bottom of such ravines. The Chinese locally do not call this peach
'_yeh tao_' or '_shan tao_' but '_Mao t'ao_,' meaning 'hairy peach.'
In the vicinity where they grow, no peaches are cultivated although
half a day's journey lower down, one meets with some poor looking trees
in gardens.

The elevation I found them was almost exactly 4000 feet above sea.
I gathered some fruits, but they are not quite ripe; I am trying to
ripen them off, however, so that we may obtain at least a few ripe
seeds. As a stock, however, it has not the value the _Davidiana_ peach
has, not being as vigorous and apparently being attacked by the same
pests that infest cultivated peaches. This 'find' is of great interest,
however, showing that wild peaches exist much nearer the coast than
we suspected, and that the peach naturally is a native of semi-arid
regions."

The explorations made by Mr. Meyer cover, of course, but a small part
of the vast empire of China. Further search will, no doubt, show many
other localities in Central and Eastern Asia where the peach grows
naturally and has probably done so from time immemorial.

As all who consult them know, ancient authors are often at fault in
matters of history in determining the origin of cultivated plants but
they are usually fairly accurate in stating the date of culture of a
plant in a country. In the case of the peach the date of culture can
be established as so much earlier in China than elsewhere that history
alone all but proves its previous existence there in the wild state.
In short, the peach was a cultivated fruit in China before there were
other agricultural communities from which it could come; for, be it
remembered, in China, according to De Candolle, our best authority,
agricultural and horticultural arts flourished long before they had
even begun elsewhere, unless, possibly, Egypt be excepted, and here the
peach, where it may be grown at all, is surely an introduced plant.

A statement of the first known dates of peach-culture in various
countries is strong proof that its cultivation began in China.
According to De Candolle[4] the culture of the peach was "spoken
of 2000 years before its introduction into the Greco-Roman world,
a thousand years before its introduction into the lands of the
Sanskrit-speaking race." As we have said, the Bible and other Hebrew
books do not mention the peach and there is no Sanskrit name for it.
Of the Greeks, Xenophon, 401 B. C., makes no mention of the peach but
Theophrastus, a little later, 322 B. C., speaks of it as a fruit of
Persia. Coming to the Romans, no mention is made of the peach by Cato,
201 B. C., nor by Varro, 117-27 B. C., but Pliny, A. D. 79, expressly
states that the peach was imported by the Romans from Persia not long
before.

De Candolle gives no authority for his statement that the peach was
spoken of 2000 years before its introduction into Europe and I cannot
verify it; but a search through even such Chinese literature as is
accessible to one who does not read the Chinese language shows that the
peach was commonly spoken of in the literature of China several hundred
years before the Christian era. Two examples must suffice, taking
those that seem most authentic as to the identity of the peach. In the
Shi-King, or book of poetry, a collection of ancient Chinese poems made
by Confucius (551-478 B. C.) the peach, in common with the plum, pear,
jujube and other fruits, is several times mentioned. According to the
translator all of these poems were written before the Sixth Century B.
C., the oldest dating back eighteen centuries. Thus in Book I,[5] Odes
of Chow in the South, is the following bit of verse:

    In Praise of a Bride

    "Graceful and young the peach-tree stands;
    How rich its flowers, all gleaming bright!
    This bride to her new home repairs;
    Chamber and house she'll order right.

    Graceful and young the peach-tree stands;
    Large crops of fruit it soon will show.
    This bride to her new home repairs;
    Chamber and house her sway shall know.

    Graceful and young the peach-tree stands;
    Its foliage clustering green and full.
    This bride to her new home repairs;
    Her household will attest her rule."

Other references to the peach may be found in Book IX,[6] The Odes of
Wei, and Book XIII,[7] The Odes of Kwei.

Superstitions and legends throw light on the antiquity of the objects
with which they are connected. It is significant that the Chinese
alone ascribe miraculous powers to the peach, their traditions of the
properties of different forms of this fruit being both numerous and
very ancient. M. Cibot, a French missionary among the Chinese, in a
series of cyclopedic volumes on China, devotes a chapter to the peach
in which, after describing the peaches of the country and giving a
full discussion of methods of culture, he mentions numerous Chinese
superstitions concerning this fruit. He writes:[8]

"The Chinese have for a long time preserved the history of the first
ages either in their books or in their traditions. The oldest of their
books have perished. They have saved only a part of their ancient
national works on the great wars and general uprisings, and the
original traditions, changed in a thousand ways, made into fables,
finally corrupted by idolatry, are today only chaos; but this chaos
is not without any ray of light. Many of these traditions, although
disfigured, bear back too exactly to the marvelous tales of the lost
books to be able to mistake the beliefs of the early ages. Thus, there
are many traditions referring to the peach. Some call it the tree of
life, others the tree of death. Peaches lengthened to a point, of
large size, and colored red on one side, are regarded by the Chinese
as the symbol of a long life. In consequence of these ancient national
superstitions, peaches enter into all the ornaments of painting and
sculpture. They are saved for the salute to the new year. Here are
several ancient texts on the peach and its fruits:

From Chin-non-King: 'The peach 'Yu' signifies death and eternal life.
If one has been able to eat it enough times, it saves the body from
corruption till the end of the world.' From Chin-y-King: 'There is
in the Orient a peach whose almond, eaten, makes eternal life.' From
Chou-y-Ki: 'Whoever eats this fruit (the peach 'Yu' from the Koue-liou
Mountain) obtains immortal life.'

Still other texts could be cited but I will merely remark that in all
the peach is connected with immortality. Again we find that certain
peaches can not be offered by the ancients in sacrifice, and that the
premature blossoming of another peach signifies great calamities. To
quote again: From Sin-lin: 'In the garden of Yang was the peach of
death; whoever approached it must die.' From Fong-fou-teng: 'It is said
in the book of Hoang-ti that two brothers found on a mountain a peach
tree under which were a hundred demons to cause death to men.' From
Lietchouen, on the subject of the evils which afflict the earth: 'the
tree of Knowledge is the peach.'"

Very interesting and illuminating as to the age of the peach in China,
is an account given by Dr. Yamei Kin[9] who was asked by a member of
the staff of the Office of Foreign Seed and Plant Introduction, United
States Department of Agriculture, for information concerning the
peach-blossoms. After describing the several kinds of blossoms borne
by Chinese peaches, the writer gives some of the superstitions and
legends which the Chinese connect with the peach.

"The ordinary name for pink is peach flower color, and notwithstanding
the love of Chinese for color, it is used sparingly, in fact, owing to
its being associated with the peach blossom, seems to have an unsavory
significance, as I found when I came home one day with a pink satin
brocade gown that I had just purchased. My people held up their hands
in horror, and exclaimed it was a mercy that I did not intend to wear
that here, it would only do for outside countries that did not know
about peach flowers, which remarks led me to leave it in America when
I came back, though it was a very lovely delicate color and one of my
prettiest gowns.

The reason for this prejudice is owing to its symbolism. Just as the
violet is considered in western lands to be the symbol of modest worth,
so the plum is that of feminine virtue in China and the peach flower
the opposite. Not even the beauty of its color, whether delicate pink
or deep cerise, redeems it from this fatal significance. In order
that there may be no possible opportunity for a 'peach flower heart'
to spring up unawares in some girl of respectable family, it is not
considered wise to plant a peach of any kind near the bed room windows
of the court yards inhabited by the women, yet peach wands are supposed
to be especially useful to beat off all evil spirits, only they must
be plucked during a solar eclipse and a hole bored through one end
for hanging up by, during a lunar eclipse, which perhaps accounts for
their fewness, as during those times in the old days the people were
generally busily occupied in beating gongs and firing off crackers to
drive away the heavenly dogs which were supposed to be devouring those
luminaries, and no one had time to think of making peach wands. The
lucky possessor of an efficacious peach wand is supposed to be able to
sleep at night with it under his pillow in full confidence that no evil
spirits can harm him.

Taoism from early days has taken the peach as its particular fruit,
signifying longevity, much as the apples of Hesperides were symbolic in
the Grecian mythology.

Furthermore peach stones are often made into rosaries which are
considered specially fine. There is a collection of tales by one
Cornaby to be found in almost every library called 'A String of
Peach Stones.' And a host of legends cluster around the tale of Sun,
the stone monkey, eating the peaches of immortality stolen from the
gardens of the genii, whereby he attains immortality. This theme is
seen elaborated in many scenes, that decorate pottery, textiles, and
congratulatory scrolls.

I wish that I were not tied down so much by tedious detail in the
medical work, as there is a most interesting book that needs to be
translated telling much of the folk lore of the peach interwoven
with the plot, which is supposed to be the journey of Hsien tsang to
bring back the sacred sutras of Buddha from India. It is said that
this is an actual historic occurrence, but this tale is evidently
semi-religious and allegorical, as well, combining in itself the
characteristics of Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, Hans Christian
Andersen, and the Arabian Nights, if you can imagine such a mixture,
yet giving graphic pictures of Chinese life in various phases that are
as true as when the book was written.

One of the most charming legends of peach flower lore is that of
the 'Peach Blossom Fountain,' an allegory written by T'ao Yuan Ming
between A. D. 365-427, describing how a fisherman got lost one day and
penetrating up a river finds himself in a creek bordered with many
peach trees full of bloom, at the end of which he comes upon a small
mountain in which is a cave which he traverses and enters on a new
country where there is every sign of prosperity, every one is courteous
to each other, kindliness and contentment prevail, but they wear the
garb of the times of the First Emperor some five centuries previous and
have been lost to the rest of the country ever since. The fisherman
returns after a sojourn with them, and tells his fellow villagers of
this wonderful country and stirs up so much interest that finally
the governor of the province joins in the search for this wonderful
country, but it is all of no avail and at last the fisherman realizes
that he will never more see the peach blossom days of his youth with
its rosy dreams and ideals that come but once in a lifetime."

Lastly, a significant fact suggesting the Chinese origin of the peach
is found in the behavior of this fruit in America. The peach is more at
home in North America than in any other part of the world unless it be
China. Now, that there is a pomological alliance between eastern Asia
and eastern America is well known. The remarkable relationship between
the plants of the two regions was first set forth by Asa Gray and
subsequent writers have added much to what he told us. The explanation
lies, as all agree, in similarities in climate. Now, with this
relationship of the wild and cultivated floras of eastern America and
China in mind, the rapid acclimation and acclimatization of the peach
in the United States are readily understood if we accept China as the
habitat of this fruit. On the other hand, the natural plant-products of
Persia find life anything but easy in eastern America.

There is but one further consideration before beginning the history
of the peach as a cultivated fruit. Thomas Andrew Knight and Charles
Darwin contended that the peach is a modified almond. This hypothesis
would scarcely deserve consideration were it not for the high authority
of the men who espoused it--the judgments of a Knight and a Darwin
cannot be overlooked.


HAS THE PEACH COME FROM THE ALMOND?

In the light of evolution every plant has been preceded by another and
since the peach and almond have many characters in common, one may have
descended from the other. But as to which, if either, is the parent
species it would seem idle to speculate with the shreddy and patchy
knowledge we now possess of the descent of plants. Yet Thomas Andrew
Knight, the greatest horticultural authority of his time and one of
the leading experimenters of all time in this field of agriculture,
maintained that the peach is a modified almond. His theory received the
support of several of the leading English horticulturists of the last
century and Darwin gave it credence to the extent of collecting data
for its substantiation.

Knight believed that the almond and the peach constituted a single
species and that by selection under cultivation an almond could
ultimately be turned into a peach.[10] He sought proof for his theory
in hybridization and on a tree raised from the seed of an almond
fertilized by peach-pollen produced a fruit with soft and melting flesh
and in all characteristics more like the peach than the almond. This
experiment, which in the light of our present knowledge of the laws of
inheritance does not in the least illuminate the hypothesis with which
Knight started, carried on in the medieval days of plant-breeding,
convinced not only Knight in his belief that the peach may be bred from
the almond but led others, even down to our own time, to accept the
theory.

Thus, a writer, presumably Lindley, in _The Gardener's Chronicle_[11]
in 1856 says "we are justified in the conclusion that the Almond
bears about the same relation to the Peach that the Crab bears to the
Cultivated Apple." Later, in the same article, the descent is pictured
as follows:

  "1. Almond became more fleshy--Bad clingstone.

  2. Bad clingstone became more fleshy--Good clingstone.

  3. Good clingstone became more fleshy--Our soft peaches.

  4. Soft peach sported, receding toward the original fleshy type
     and lost its wool--Nectarine."

Another high authority in his time, Thomas Rivers,[12] in 1863, held
that peaches, if left to a state of nature would degenerate into
thick-fleshed almonds and makes the positive statement that he has "one
or two seedling peaches approaching very nearly to that state."

Darwin,[13] in 1868, considers Knight's supposition at length and while
he does not positively accept it, yet lends it his support by quoting
several authors who put forth proofs in favor of it. His most positive
statement in discussing the theory referring to facts regarding the
origin of the peach is: "The supposition, however, that the peach is a
modified almond which acquired its present character at a comparatively
late period, would, I presume, account for these facts."

Carrière,[14] one of the most eminent French pomologists of the last
century, is the chief French champion of the theory that the peach
came from the almond and devotes several pages in his estimable work,
_Variétés De Pêchers_, in demonstrating that the one is a form of the
other. His arguments, however, are but amplifications of those of
Knight and Lindley though he cites more intermediate forms than either
of the English writers--so many that they go far toward convincing one
of the correctness of his views. There is the feeling, however, in the
case of Carrière, in the light of present knowledge, that his botanical
evidence is pushed a little too far for full credulity.

Knight, Lindley, Rivers, Darwin and Carrière, the men holding the
theory whose opinions are most worthy consideration, fell into error,
as we think, through attaching too much importance to likenesses in
the fruits of the peach and almond and because they became confused
in following the behavior of the two fruits under hybridization. As
we shall show later in discussing the characters of the peach, this
fruit differs from the almond in other characters than those of the
fruit--characters not at all likely to be changed by cultivation
and selection as would all those of the fruits. Knight's proof from
hybridization was purely speculative. The fact that the peach and
almond may be crossed, giving intermediate forms, nowadays would not be
looked upon as proof that the two necessarily belong to one species.
However, in the light of the knowledge in existence at the beginning
of the last century regarding the crossing of plants, we need not
apologize for the inference that Knight drew from his simple experiment.

Students of heredity would find almost conclusive proof that the peach
is not a modified almond--a descendant, say, in this geologic period at
least--in the fact that there is no recorded case of a peach fertilized
by a peach producing an almond, or _vice versa_. If the relationship
were at all close, if the two species had had a common origin even
though in rather remote times, if they were nearly enough related
readily to hybridize or be hybridized, it would be expected that now
and then, as in the case of a nectarine, the peach would produce an
almond or the almond a peach.

Geographical botany also opposes Knight's hypothesis, as De
Candolle[15] points out, for, as he plainly shows, the almond had its
origin in western Asia, it being found truly wild in many parts of
south-western Asia and having been cultivated many centuries before
the peach was known in these regions. On the other hand, the almond
was not known in China before the Christian era whereas the peach had
been cultivated there at least 2000 years anterior to the introduction
of the almond. With such widely separated habitats, the two fruits can
hardly be considered as parent and offspring.

We cannot close our eyes to the patent relationships of the peach and
the almond. That the two constitute but one species, as we now consider
species, or that they bear the close relationship of the peach and
the nectarine, probably no one now in high authority will concede.
But for the weight of the names we have used, and the fact that the
theory still finds supporters, Knight's hypothesis, the outcropping of
a speculative mind in a speculative age, might have been overlooked or
dismissed with a word.


THE PEACH IN ASIA

We must have more knowledge of the peach in Asia than the bare fact
that it originated somewhere in the vast empire of China. We want,
first, to know what the characters of the prototypal peach were. If we
can get some idea of the original wild peach of China we shall know
something of how this fruit has been improved by man and, perhaps,
something of its future potentialities. Second, though not essential
to this study, it will be profitable to peach-growers to inquire
whether there are types of peaches still remaining in China that might
be improved under western cultivation. If so, we want them, since our
cultivated peaches are not free from faults, some of which we might
get rid of by the interjection of new blood. It is now about seventy
years since Robert Fortune, the adventurous English plant-collector,
began dipping into the horticultural treasures of China; and recent
explorations make plain that there are still riches in plants in that
country--the fact that they can now be brought through the "open door,"
instead of as spoils to be smuggled out, makes it easier to obtain any
new types of peaches that may now be found.

What were the characters of the prototypal peach in China? The few
records that have come down through the ages do not enable us to form
much of a picture of the primitive peach. But plants do not change
quickly in China, for their orchard-cultivation is not as intensive nor
selection as assiduously practiced as in western countries, so that
we are warranted in assuming that cultivation for forty centuries has
not greatly changed this fruit. Besides, it is probable that the wild
forms, whether truly wild or reverted escapes from cultivation, now
represent closely the original indigenous stocks of the peach. Luckily,
we have trustworthy sources of information in regard to both the wild
and the cultivated peaches as they now grow in China. We are at this
time concerned, it should be said, only with the common peach, _Prunus
persica_.

Fortune began botanical explorations in China in 1844, since which
time one enthusiast after another, thirsting for botanical spoils and
honors, has brought from eastern Asia and Europe to America, varieties
and species of ornamental and agricultural plants. In the accounts of
these exploring and collecting expeditions, there are many records of
peaches, wild and cultivated, that are now growing in China and from
these we may piece out a fair description of the original races of
this fruit. The United States Department of Agriculture, through its
agricultural explorers, collaborators and correspondents in the Office
of Foreign Seed and Plant Introduction, has given special attention
to agricultural plants and from the accounts of the workers in this
department alone, we can get a good picture of the peach of the
Twentieth Century in China which, as we think, will represent very well
the original stock from which all peaches have come.

It is now almost the unanimous judgment of scientists that the
characters of plants are independent entities which are thrown
into various relationships with each other in individuals and
groups of individuals as varieties and species. This conception of
unit-characters lies at the foundation of botanical and horticultural
descriptions and of plant-breeding. It is more important, then, to know
what the characters of Chinese peaches were and are than to attempt to
describe in full the wild and cultivated peaches of China. In this, a
horticultural study, it answers our purpose to consider chiefly the
characters of the fruits.

The fruit-characters that differentiate races and varieties of
cultivated peaches in America are ten, as follows: Downy skin; smooth
skin; white flesh; yellow flesh; red flesh; flesh clinging to the
stone; flesh free from the stone; shape more or less round; shape
roundish but decidedly beaked; shape distinctly flat. Let us see by
direct quotations from the workers in the United States Department of
Agriculture how many of these ten fruit-characters are named in the
wild and cultivated Chinese peaches of today.

_Downy skin._--A downy skin is the normal condition of the peach.
This character is found in all of the peaches to be mentioned in this
discussion except those under the next heading.

_Smooth skin._--"28963--From Samarkand, Turkestan."[16]

"A small nectarine of very firm flesh and of subacid flavor; red
throughout; from a distance resembles a crab apple more than anything
else. Said to come from Chartchui."

"29227[17]--From Samarkand, Russian Turkestan. A yellow clingstone
nectarine of medium size; meat very firm and of medium sweet taste, not
melting."

"30325[18]--From Khotan, Chinese Turkestan. A nectarine called
_Dagatch_. Fruits red, of medium size, clingstone."

"30332[19]--From Karghalik, Chinese Turkestan. A nectarine called
_Anar-shabdalah_. Fruits rather small, whitish pink in color, and of
sweet, aromatic flavor. This is a medium-late ripen er and a rare local
variety."

"30334[20]--From Shagra-bazar, Chinese Turkestan. A nectarine called
_Kizil-dagatch_. Fruits small, red; medium early."

"30335[21]--From Upal, Chinese Turkestan. A nectarine called
_Ak-tagatch_. Fruits large, white; a late ripener; of good keeping and
shipping qualities."

"30336[22]--From Yarkand, Chinese Turkestan. A nectarine called
_Ak-dagatch_. Fruits medium-sized, of white color; clingstone; late in
ripening; of good keeping and shipping qualities."

"30341[23]--From Upal, Chinese Turkestan. A nectarine called _Kizil
tagatch_. Fruits large, red throughout; meat firm; of good keeping and
shipping qualities."

"30359[24]--From Kashgar, Chinese Turkestan. A very large, red,
clingstone nectarine; late ripener; can be kept for several weeks after
being fully ripe."

"30647[25]--From Khotan, Chinese Turkestan. A nectarine called _Togatch
Moneck_."

"30648[26]--From Guma, Chinese Turkestan. A small late variety of
nectarine, white in color, of fresh, sweet taste and good keeping
qualities."

_White flesh._--"27111[27]--Chinese name _Ta po tao_. A large white
peach, native in Shantung Province, China (Chefoo district)."

"30324[28]--From Khotan, Chinese Turkestan. A peach called
_Ak-shabdalah_. Fruits large, white, juicy, and aromatic; an early
ripener."

"30337[29]--From Shagra-bazar, Chinese Turkestan. A peach called
_Kok-shabdalah_. Fruits medium large, of greenish-white color; taste
sweet; medium late; not a keeper."

"30338[30]--From Yarkand, Chinese Turkestan. A peach called
_Taka-shabdalah_. Fruits very large, of whitish color with a slight
blush; late in ripening; can be kept for several weeks."

"30339[31]--From Karawag, Chinese Turkestan. A peach called
_Ak-shabdalah_. Fruits large, white in color; flavor very sweet and
pleasing; early in ripening."

"17167[32]--From Tung-chow. A large, white peach, considered a fine
fruit by the Chinese. Non-melting flesh."

"20239[33]--From Kirin. A pale colored, medium-sized peach. Kirin is
the most northern locality where I have as yet found peaches."

"27111[34]--Chinese name _Tah-buy-tower_. A large white peach native in
Shantung Province, China."

_Yellow flesh._--"30333[35]--From Shagra-bazar, Chinese Turkestan. A
peach called _Serech-shabdalah_. Fruits very large, of yellow color
throughout; meat very firm; clingstone. Stands shipping well, but does
not keep long; late in ripening (October)."

"35201[36]--From Mengtsz, Yunnan, China. Seeds of Mengtsz white peach
and yellow free peach. This fruit is grown all over this province and
occasionally attains an enormous size, and in that respect could easily
compete with the best French peaches.'"

_Red flesh._--"6543[37]--From Sai Tseo. Long, rather pointed,
red-fleshed, freestone."

"34275[38]--From Soochow, China. This is a mixed lot of peach seeds
containing some from red clingstones and some from white freestones."

"17728[39]--From Matou. A peach described to me by the natives as very
large, red meated, and juicy."

"21991[40]--From Hangchow, Chehkiang, China. A flat, red-meated peach,
not very sweet in taste. Chinese name _Hung pien tao_."

_Clingstone._--"30340[41]--From Karawag, Chinese Turkestan. A peach
called _Ais-shabdalah_. Fruits large, pinkish-white; meat firm, sweet;
clingstone. It is said here that it can be kept for several months."

"21989[42]--From Feitcheng, Shantung, China. The most famous peach
of northern China, called the _Fei tao_. The fruits grow as heavy
as one pound apiece and are pale yellowish colored, with a slight
blush; meat white, except near the stone, where it is slightly red;
taste excellent, sweet, aromatic, and juicy. Is a clingstone. Has
extraordinary keeping and shipping qualities. The branches need
propping up on account of the weight of the fruits."

"29991[43]--Seeds of a peach from Tsinanfu, Shantung, China. It is a
cling and though rather inconvenient for eating, is very large and
luscious, coming into market about the middle of September and lasting
for a month or more."

_Freestone._--"6635[44]--From mountains near Ichang. Flowers late,
fruit ripens in September. Freestone. Fruit small and quite hairy."

"30357[45]--From Kashgar, Chinese Turkestan. A large, red, freestone
peach, fine flavored; a medium-late ripener, and a most prolific
bearer."

"30358[46]--From Kashgar, Chinese Turkestan. A large, pale reddish,
freestone peach of very fine flavor; medium-late ripener; not a keeper."

"39428[47]--Amygdalus sp.--Seeds of a wild peach from Sianfu, Shensi,
China. Stones of the real wild peach, growing in the mountains, one
day's journey south of Sianfu. The fruits are small, hard and sourish,
but there is considerable variation in them as regards size and taste.
They are apparently all freestones and while some have red flesh near
the stone, others are white throughout."

_Round peaches._--Roundness is one of the characteristics of the
peach and it but labors the argument to give space to show that this
character is found in Chinese varieties. All peaches mentioned in this
discussion are round or roundish except those coming under the heading
"flat."

_Round and beaked._--"8331 to 8334[48]--Eagle Beak peach from Canton,
China. From orchard trees growing near the Great North Gate of Canton,
at Ngau lan Kong, of the _Ying tsui t'o_ or Eagle Beak peach. This
variety resembles the Honey closely, except that the pointed tip of
the fruit is more curved, according to Dr. J. M. Swan, of the Canton
Hospital."

"9805[49]--From Canton, China. _Hung Wat tim._ A variety of the 'Honey'
type, reported to be good for preserves and not so sweet as the _Ying
tsui_ or Eagle Beak variety. It is medium early."

"22650[50]--Shanghai. These peaches are called the _Honey_ peach, and I
think are very fine."

_Flat._--"6541[51]--From Sai Tseo, above Hankow. Flat, freestone,
ripens in May."

"6542[52]--From near Sai Tseo, above Hankow. White, fine fleshed, flat,
freestone, ripening the middle of May."

"6544[53]--From Sai Tseo. Medium size, flat, freestone, ripening in
May."

"6545[54]--From Sai Tseo. Flat, freestone, quality very good. Ripens in
June."

"29991[55]--Chinese Flat Peach. From Tsinan, Shantung, China. Called
_Feicheng_. It is a cling and, though rather inconvenient for eating,
is very large and luscious, coming into market about the middle of
September and lasting for a month or more."

"30482[56]--From about 50 miles southwest of Tsinan, Shantung, China.
_Feicheng._ Chinese flat peach. This is a large, luscious cling, very
much esteemed by the Chinese."

"21990[57]--From Kianchau, Shantung, China. A flat, juicy, white peach
of fine taste. Chinese name _Pai pien tao_."

"21992[58]--From near Chiningchou, Shantung, China. A flat,
pale-fleshed peach, juicy but somewhat insipid."

"22352[59]--From Shifengtse Temple, west of Peking, Chihli, China. Said
to be medium sized, very flat, and of reddish color. Chinese name _Pien
tau_."

_White stone._--"8340[60]--From Canton, China. _Pak Wat tim t'o._ A
slightly sweet, white stone variety of rather small size, preferred by
some to the _Ying tsui t'o_, which, it is said, has too sweet a flavor.
It has no beak like the latter, but is a typical south Chinese shape,
according to Dr. J. M. Swan, of the Canton Hospital, who very kindly
described this variety."

"24915[61]--_Hung wat to_ (red-stone peach)."

"24916[62]--_Paak wat to_(white-stone peach)."

"The _Hung wat to_ is a new variety and so recognized by the Chinese.
From what I can gather they believe the _Paak wat to_ to be the best,
but have some trees of the _Hung wat to_. The _Hung wat to_ seems to
blossom much quicker than the _Paak wat to_."

_Winter peaches._[63]--"The so-called winter peaches they have here are
all clingstones, somewhat watery and not very fine in general."

"30340[64]--From Chinese Turkestan is said locally to keep for several
months."

"Cuttings of nectarines from Chinese Turkestan. Among these are some
from an altitude of 5000 feet, large, late ripeners, and keeping and
shipping well, and one, number 30359,[65] recommended by the British
consul, Mr. Macartney, is said to keep for several weeks after being
fully ripe."

"30482[66]--Cuttings of the Feitcheng peach from about fifty miles
southwest of Tsinan, Shantung, China. It is a late variety, coming into
market about the middle of September or October. It is reported to
have such unusual keeping qualities, that it can be kept, when wrapped
in tissue paper, until February. Though a cling stone it is luscious,
sweet and aromatic, and of unusual size, reaching a pound in weight and
is so prized by the Chinese that as much as 15 cents apiece is paid for
it in the region where it is grown; every year the Feitcheng peaches
are sent as a present to the Imperial court in Pekin."

The evidence given encourages the belief that in the native peaches of
China may be found all of the characters that distinguish cultivated
peaches wheresoever grown. The smooth-skinned peach, or nectarine,
from the evidence at my command, is not common in eastern China but
in Chinese and Russian Turkestan it is evidently one of the commonest
fruits. Neither does yellow flesh appear to be a common character of
peaches of eastern China but is now and again mentioned so that it may
be put down as existing in the peaches of the region. Bear in mind
that the accounts given are but random ones taken by persons not more
interested in peaches than in other agricultural products and covering,
of course, but a very small part of the vast region under the dominion
of China. There is, no doubt, much to be learned about the peaches of
Asia in future explorations.[67]

In America, at least, certain characters of peaches, as flatness,
smooth skin, red flesh and prolonged beak are looked upon as
comparatively new in this fruit. At any rate, varieties having these
relatively rare characters are spoken of as sports and pomologists,
as we shall see, not infrequently announce the date of birth of one
or another of these characters. Now, a careful examination of the
evidence, scant though it is, will carry conviction to all that none of
the prominent characters of peaches have originated within the period
covered by history--all exist in China and probably have so existed
since time beyond record.

The size and color of the blossoms are distinguishing characters
of races and varieties of cultivated peaches, less valuable in
classification than the fruit-characters we have been discussing only
because they are less numerous. Peach-blossoms fall into four very
distinct kinds: Petals large and pink; petals intermediate in size
and pink or red; petals small and red or reddish; and petals large
and white. Through the United States Department of Agriculture, I am
in possession of copies of nine letters from Foreign Seed and Plant
Introduction correspondents of the United States Department in China
who had been asked to report on the size and color of peach-blossoms in
the parts of China in which they lived. The information thus obtained
is most interesting but space forbids considering it further at present
than to say that it indubitably establishes the fact that peaches with
the four kinds of blossoms are found in China. This further encourages
the belief, just set forth, that the essential characters of peaches
are old, of great fixity and originated in China at a time in the past
on which it would be idle to conjecture.

It is interesting to note that there are peaches in China with at least
two characters not found in any American varieties. Two varieties
are mentioned as having "white stones." There is no peach in America
with stones that could be described as white though several early
white-fleshed peaches have light-colored stones. This character is
unimportant and seems, from the brief descriptions of the varieties
having such stones, not to be correlated with other especially
desirable characters, yet such a peach would, at least, add an
interesting novelty to the flora of this fruit. The other character,
that of late keeping, appears to have more value. A peach that would
"keep for several months" or one ripening in September "that can
be kept, when wrapped in tissue paper, until February," is highly
desirable. No doubt through the efforts of the workers in the United
States Department of Agriculture we shall sooner or later be growing
these peaches in America.

As the probable home of the peach, we have given China so much space
in this discussion of the peach in Asia that we can now but briefly
summarize what is known of this fruit in other Asiatic countries.

_The peach in Japan._--From _Fruit Culture in Japan_[68] it is patent
that the peach is one of the leading fruits of the country. In number
of varieties of the several fruits grown in Japan the peach is exceeded
only by the persimmon--ninety-five peaches and two nectarines being
listed, all having Japanese names. The following account gives some
idea of the peach-industry as carried on in Japan:

"There are a number of varieties of our native peaches and nectarines.
From the extreme south of Formosa to Hokkaido, local forms are
cultivated side by side with Western and Chinese varieties, which are
all much superior to ours in all respects. During the past twenty
years, the growing of introduced peaches has replaced the native one
with striking rapidity. Their growing seems to be naturally limited in
Hokkaido to the south part up to about 43 degrees N. L. The mid-season
and late varieties do not properly ripen there and peach growing
consequently does not develop to be a profitable industry in Hokkaido.
Peaches are rather easy to cultivate and seem to be less susceptible
to the effects of climate, than apples, provided suitable sites and
soil be given. Consequently peach orchards are found scattered here
and there all over the country. For the peaches there is no difference
between the two longitudinal halves of Japan. At present, large
orchards of peaches, regularly planted and trained, are found on the
alluvial lowlands and hillsides. The heavy rainfall during June and
July causes an overluxuriance of growth and considerable portion of the
fruits drop down without reaching maturity. To prevent the damage from
the parasites our people have learned through experience the important
operation of bagging. On the loamy soils, good qualities of fruits may
be attained, but the growers are accustomed to prefer light sandy soils
to insure success. Sometimes rather dry hillsides give good results."

_The peach in Turkestan and Persia._--We shall become too deeply
involved if we attempt to trace the cultivation of peaches in all of
the countries of Asia. A sentence each suffices for other regions
than China and Japan, excepting Turkestan, where the peach seems
preeminently at home, and must therefore have more than a word.

The peach is commonly grown in Mongolia and Cochin China.[69] Several
kinds of peaches are cultivated in the north of India.[70] The peach
requires the greatest care to ensure success in the north-east
of India.[71] A correspondent of the United States Department of
Agriculture at Kashgar, British India, describes a nectarine grown
there wanting "a hot but only a short summer."[72] Meyer, Agricultural
Explorer for the United States Department of Agriculture, found a
variety of peach growing at Kirin, Mongolia, not far from Vladivostock,
which he says "is the most northern locality where I have yet found
peaches."[73] These references might be multiplied but enough are given
to show that the peach grows wild or cultivated wherever the climate
permits in central and eastern Asia.

The peach seems to be quite as much at home, as highly prized and as
commonly grown in Russian Turkestan, northern Persia, Trans-Caucasia
and Asia Minor--the countries of western Asia--as in the eastern part
of the continent. The Chinese early discovered trade routes over the
mountains from the center of Asia to Kashmir, Bokhara and northern
Persia. What more probable than that in remote times the seeds of
peaches should have been carried westward from China and the peach
thus have been introduced into western Asia where it at once found a
congenial soil and climate. The peach-tree is so easily raised from the
pit that its diffusion along routes of travel must have been very rapid.

Of many accounts of the peaches of this region, long and short, perhaps
the following from Mr. Albert Regel gives, in the space to be spared,
the best idea of the extent of the peach-region in western Asia and
the races represented--races rather than varieties, for of the latter
there must be legions since we are told the trees are grown from seed.
Regel,[74] a physician by vocation, lived in Turkestan for nine years
and collected fruits and flowers as an avocation. He seems to have
penetrated every nook and corner of Turkestan and adjacent regions. Of
peaches and nectarines he says:

"Next to the pomegranate, the Asiatics prize the peach, and the
Oriental poetry compares its lusciousness to the fruits of Paradise.
The culture of the peach reaches its northern limit in the district
of the Ili. The young plants, which, as throughout Asia, are grown
from the seed, without grafting, suffer greatly there from frost and
require careful covering; nevertheless the large, smooth, red and the
rough, hairy, yellow fruit of the Chinese varieties develop excellent
characteristics. According to the observations of the naturalist
Wilkins, there are 40 varieties in the Kokan district, among them
some Chinese ones. In the South the peach extends to Afghanistan
and Tshotral; its proper home, however, is Northern Persia to the
Caucasus. In Darvas the peach forms trees 30 feet high with broad tops.
The rough-skinned giant peaches of the garden of Kalaichumb are of
unsurpassed lusciousness and aroma, and most inviting bloom (tinting of
the cheeks). They attain the size of an average apple. The fruitfulness
of this variety is so great that the leaves seem to be concealed by
the peaches. The Bokhariots prize the smaller rough skinned, and red
cheeked variety at Tchaspak, which is distinguished by strong aroma and
firm, almost astringent flesh. The yellow peaches are especially sweet.
The number of rough-skinned kinds at Kalaichumb is considerable.

The smooth-skinned nectarines of this region, among which there are
smaller, pale yellow varieties and very large red cheeked ones, are of
unusually fine flavor and melting flesh; but they are equalled by the
nectarines of Samarkand. There are also small sweet yellow kinds, which
stand half way between the rough coated and smooth coated peaches.
Such an one grows in the exposed region of Paendish. In Jasqulam, a
small rough-skinned, red peach with astringent flesh and musky aroma
flourishes. Roshan, the district of Barpaendsha, and Surshan on the
lower Hund, produce later ripening and less valuable varieties, than
the territory of the lower Paendish."

Another quotation shows the intensity of the orcharding in some parts
of this favored land of fruits. In his chapter on the Zarafshan Valley,
Schuyler says:[75]

"The gardens constitute the beauty of all this land. The long rows
of poplar and elm trees, the vineyards, the dark foliage of the
pomegranate over the walls, transport one at once to the plains of
Lombardy or of Southern France. In the early spring the outskirts of
the city, and indeed the whole valley, are one mass of white and pink,
with the bloom of almond and peach, of cherry and apple, of apricot and
plum, which perfume the air for miles around. These gardens are the
favourite dwelling-places in the summer, and well may they be. Nowhere
are fruits more abundant, and of some varieties it can be said that
nowhere are they better. The apricots and nectarines I think it would
be impossible to surpass anywhere. These ripen in June, and from that
time until winter fruit and melons are never lacking. Peaches, though
smaller in size, are better in flavour than the best of England, but
they are far surpassed by those of Delaware. The big blue plums of
Bukhara are celebrated through the whole of Asia. The cherries are
mostly small and sour. The best apples come either from Khiva, or from
Suzak, to the north of Turkestan, but the small white pears of Tashkent
are excellent in their way. The quince, as with us, is cultivated only
for jams or marmalades, or for flavouring soup."

West-central Asia, "the cradle of races," is, as well, the cradle of
fruits and vegetables and he who would know more of its orchards,
gardens and vineyards should read Schuyler's _Turkestan_ and Lansdell's
_Russian Central Asia_. We have quoted from the first-named book and
now close the discussion of peaches in Asia by a few brief quotations
from Lansdell, taking a few from many to bring out points worth noting.
We usually think of flat peaches as belonging to southeastern Asia,
yet Lansdell found them in west-central Asia:[76] "Here we bought our
first ripe grapes and nectarines. Apricots ripen at Kuldja at the
beginning of July, and we were, therefore, too late for them, but of
late peaches, that ripen early in August, we came in for the last,
flat in form, about an inch and a half in diameter and half an inch in
thickness. They tasted fairly well, but there was little flesh on the
stone."

Nectarines, as we have mentioned before, seem to be especially
plentiful in this region:[77] "In the market (Vierny) we also bought
grapes, and, still better, small but luscious nectarines, the latter
for a halfpenny each, of which, as I sat over my writing at night, I
ate so many as to alarm Mr. Sevier, whose medical instincts led him
to fear for the consequences. All went well, however, and I never
stinted myself from that time onward from Central Asian fruit, and I am
thankful to say was not once inconvenienced thereby."

As throwing light on the wild fruits of this region, we have Lansdell's
statement that there are whole forests of almond trees and many species
of cherries, plums, apples, pears and apricots, but wild peaches are
not mentioned.[78]

On another page we are told that peaches in Bokhara are of three
varieties, red, white and green, and in a foot-note that they are grown
as follows:[79] "When sown, the stone is put in the earth two fingers
deep, before the frosts set in; water is then let in and allowed to
freeze; after that, earth is put over it and left till the following
spring, when the young shoots are transplanted at intervals of four
paces. The best peaches are said to come from Samarkand."

One is tempted to enlarge upon fruit-possibilities in these
west-Asiatic valleys. Without much strain upon the imagination it is
easy to conjure up visions of great fruit-industries in west Asia
rivaling those of our own Pacific Coast when communications with
European markets are opened and if the people now there or those who
may migrate there begin to make use of their opportunities and to take
advantage of the best that art and science now offer horticulture. In
the event of such a development, peaches, fresh and dried, will not be
the least of the products of the region.


THE PEACH IN EUROPE

One finds treasures of experience and inspiration for narrative in the
history of the peach in Europe. But to present a systematic record of
the peach as it traveled from country to country after its introduction
into ancient Greece would require a volume and a long one, which,
interesting and profitable as it might be, could hardly be justified in
this work. Present purposes are best served by attempting only to point
out the landmarks in the history and development of the peach from the
time it left Asia until it reached America. The first landmark is in
the introduction of the peach into Greece.

_The peach in Greece._--As to the approximate date and the manner
in which the peach reached Greece, there is now common accord among
those who may be considered authorities on the history of fruits.
Theophrastus (332 B. C.) was the first Greek to mention the peach,
speaking of it as a "Persian fruit." It may be, of course, that the
peach came to Greece from Asia Minor or Persia at an earlier date. One
might well suspect that if peaches were growing in Persia at the time
of the retreat of the Ten Thousand (401 B. C.), since the army must
have traversed the country in which, according to some, the peach is
native and at least had probably then been introduced, the taste of so
pleasant a fruit would have inspired some soldier of the retreating
Greeks to carry seeds to his western home. But Xenophon, historian
of the retreat and a writer on agriculture as well as of war, does
not mention the peach as he almost certainly would have done had it
occupied a prominent place among the agricultural products of his time.

There is another story of the introduction of the peach into Greece
that may be mentioned to separate fact from fable. Some of the old
writers assert that the peach came to Greece from Persia by the way of
Egypt. Such statements are founded on a traditionary tale first printed
by Pliny to the effect that this fruit was sent into Egypt by the kings
of Persia to poison the Egyptians. Pliny[80] denies that the kings of
Persia had the peach transplanted into Egypt from motives of revenge
but evidently is under the belief that the peach came from Egypt for he
says:

"As to the peach-tree, it has been only introduced of late years, and
with considerable difficulty; so much so, that it is perfectly barren
in the Isle of Rhodes, the first resting-place that it found after
leaving Egypt."

We would like to amplify the bare statement that Alexander brought
the peach to Greece 332 B. C., but this single fact, if it be a fact,
seems to constitute the recorded history of the peach in Greece before
the Christian era. Dioscorides, about 64 A. D., was the next Greek to
mention the peach but he discusses it with reference to its medicinal
properties and does not enlighten us greatly as to its horticultural
standing. The fact that the several Greek writers whose books have
come down to us from the period under consideration do not mention the
peach does not argue that this fruit was not then growing in Greece;
for classicists, then as now, seldom got down to earth and the things
growing in it.

_The peach in Italy._--Naturally one goes to the oldest book in Latin
literature on agriculture to look for the beginnings of peach-culture
in Italy. This, as every student knows, is _De Re Rustica_, a work on
farming, gardening and fruit-growing by Cato (235-150 B. C.) on whom
posterity has bestowed the appellation "Sturdiest Roman of Them All."
Cato mentions most of our common orchard-fruits, as well as our field
crops and garden-plants, but the peach is not in his list of fruits;
neither does Varro (117-27 B. C.), the next great Roman writer on
agriculture, seem to have known the peach though he mentions choice
varieties of cultivated cherries, which at his time had but newly been
introduced into Rome.

To Vergil (71-19 B. C.), we are indebted for the first reference to
the peach in Roman literature. The "Prince of Latin Poets," writing on
agriculture, orcharding and gardening, in the Georgics, mentions the
peach in these graceful lines:

    "Myself will search our planted grounds at home,
    For downy peaches and the glossy plum."

Columella, writing in the next generation after Vergil, about 40 A. D.,
adopts or starts the story of the peach being a poisonous gift sent
from Persia to Egypt:

    "And apples, which most barbarous Persia sent,
    With native poison arm'd (as fame relates):
    But now they've lost their pow'r to kill, and yield
    Ambrosial juice, and have forgot to hurt;
    And of their country still retain the name."

Some hold, however, that Columella refers not to the peach, "persica"
but to "persa" a quite different fruit. But unquestionably, according
to commentators, Columella has the peach in mind in these lines:

    "Those of small size to ripen make great haste;
    Such as great Gaul bestows observe due time
    And season, not too early, nor too late."

By these tokens do we know that the peach was cultivated in Italy some
years before the Christian era.

In Pliny's remarkable compend of the natural history lore that existed
at the beginning of the Christian era, we have the first information
worthy of note on the peach in Italy. His statements, though they
throw more light on what the peach then was than the writings of any
one until his time, taking a more utilitarian turn than those of the
Greeks, are confusing and do not enlighten us greatly either as to
the history of the peach, or as to its pomological standing. Still,
Pliny's observations constitute an important landmark in the history
of this fruit and we must give them full consideration. First, let us
give attention to Pliny's account of the introduction of the peach into
Italy. He devotes Chapter 13, Book XV, to "The Peach" confining his
observations to historical references but in it so confounds peaches,
plums and other trees that we learn but little as to when, whence or
how the peach came to the Romans. Since this reference is much quoted,
however, despite its indefiniteness, we give it in full.[81]

"The name of 'Persica,' or 'Persian apple,' given to this fruit,
fully proves that it is an exotic in both Greece as well as Asia, and
that it was first introduced from Persis. As to the wild plum, it is
a well-known fact that it will grow anywhere; and I am, therefore,
the more surprised that no mention has been made of it by Cato, more
particularly as he has pointed out the method of preserving several
of the wild fruits as well. As to the peach-tree, it has been only
introduced of late years, and with considerable difficulty; so much
so, that it is perfectly barren in the Isle of Rhodes, the first
resting-place that it found after leaving Egypt.

It is quite untrue that the peach which grows in Persia is poisonous,
and produces dreadful tortures, or that the kings of that country, from
motives of revenge, had it transplanted in Egypt, where, through the
nature of the soil, it lost all its evil properties--for we find that
it is of the 'persea' that the more careful writers have stated all
this, a totally different tree, the fruit of which resembles the red
myxa, and, indeed, cannot be successfully cultivated anywhere but in
the East. The learned have also maintained that it was not introduced
from Persis into Egypt with the view of inflicting punishment, but say
that it was planted at Memphis by Perseus; for which reason it was that
Alexander gave orders that the victors should be crowned with it in the
games which he instituted there in honour of his ancestor; indeed, this
tree has always leaves and fruit upon it, growing immediately upon the
others. It must be quite evident to every one that all our plums have
been introduced since the time of Cato."

Our author's discussion of the kinds of peaches and of their market
value is somewhat more satisfactory. In Chapter 11, Book XV, entitled
"Six Varieties of the Peach," Pliny again discusses several fruits but
in the last paragraph confines himself to the peach and puts on record
the first account of varieties of this fruit. The chapter follows in
full:[82]

"Under the head of apples, we include a variety of fruits, although of
an entirely different nature, such as the Persian apple, for instance,
and the pomegranate, of which, when speaking of the tree, we have
already enumerated nine varieties. The pomegranate has a seed within,
enclosed in a skin; the peach has a stone inside. Some among the pears,
also, known as 'libralia,' show, by their name, what a remarkable
weight they attain.

Among the peaches the palm must be awarded to the duracinus: the
Gallic and the Asiatic peach are distinguished respectively by the
names of the countries of their origin. They ripen at the end of
autumn, though some of the early kinds are ripe in the summer. It is
only within the last thirty years that these last have been introduced;
originally they were sold at the price of a denarius apiece. Those
known as the 'supernatia' come from the country of the Sabines, but
the 'popularia' grow everywhere. This is a very harmless fruit, and a
particular favourite with invalids: some, in fact, have sold before
this as high as thirty sesterces apiece, a price that has never been
exceeded by any other fruit. This, too, is the more to be wondered at,
as there is none that is a worse keeper: for, when it is once plucked,
the longest time that it will keep is a couple of days; and so sold it
must be, fetch what it may."

The first of Pliny's six varieties is the "Persian Apple"--"_malum
persicum_" in the original text. It is well to note the author's
statement that "Under the head of apples, we include a variety of
fruits." A literal translation of the Latin word _malum_ in Pliny
has brought about many misunderstandings. Beside the peach, pear and
pomegranate grouped here as "apples," the apricot, orange, citron and
no doubt other fruits come "under the head of apples." The "Persian
apple," then, must be counted as one of Pliny's "six varieties of
peaches." From the name we know whence the Romans had the peach.

The second variety is the duracinus, to which, among peaches, "the
palm must be awarded." The name translated literally is "hard-berry"
and must refer to the firmness of the flesh. Despite the fact that De
Candolle[83] and others hold that Pliny does not mention the nectarine,
"duracinus" can hardly be other than the nectarine--at least the name
fits the nectarine better than it does any peach.

The third and fourth of Pliny's peaches are the "Gallic" and "Asiatic,"
"distinguished respectively by the names of the countries of their
origin." Can it be possible that there is a peach native to France? We
should say at once that this is but one of Pliny's inaccuracies were
it not for the fact that several of the highest French pomological
authorities state that certain races of the peach are natives of
southern France. Duhamel Du Monceau[84] and Leroy[85] are chief
champions of this belief and the latter says that Mayer, Calvel and
Carrière, other French authorities, are of the same opinion. These
French writers offer no substantial proofs and botanists do not agree
with them; it seems, weighing the evidence at this distance, as if they
had copied Columella and Pliny too closely. The fact that the peach is
a perfectly naturalized denizen of parts of France, of course, gives
color to the belief that it is a native and not an exotic in that
country. Quite similarly, our early botanists, including so careful
an observer as Bartram, were of the opinion that the peach belonged
to America for the reason that they found it growing wild in our
southern woods--an escape from early Spanish settlers. Pliny's Gallic
peach, probably, was a descendant of an early introduction from some
outside source. How the "Asiatic peach" of our quotation differs from
the "Persian apple" does not appear except in its origin, it probably
having come more or less directly from Asia Minor which in Pliny's time
seems to have been Asia.

The last two of Pliny's six varieties are those known as "supernatia"
which "come from the country of the Sabines" and the "popularia" which
"grow everywhere." Whether supernatia, meaning "from above," refers to
the fact that this peach grows in the high and mountainous country of
the Sabines or to its being a choice variety, cannot be said. Probably,
however, it designates choice peaches while the "popularia" which grow
everywhere refers to the common run of this fruit.

Peaches were profitable in Rome in Pliny's time, for they sold "as high
as thirty sesterces apiece." A sesterce is four and one-half cents so
that the possible price of a peach in Rome 1900 years ago was $1.35.
The Roman peach-grower was at the mercy of the seasons as are those of
nowadays for we read that when once plucked the peach could be kept but
a couple of days, "so sold it must be, fetch what it may."

The statement that the peach is a "particular favorite with invalids,"
reminds us that the ancients ascribe various medicinal properties
to nearly all plants and Pliny sets forth those of the peach as
follows:[86]

"Peaches, again, are more wholesome than plums; and the same is the
case with the juice of the fruit, extracted, and taken in either
wine or vinegar. Indeed, what known fruit is there that is more
wholesome as an aliment than this? There is none, in fact, that has a
less powerful smell, or a greater abundance of juice, though it has
a tendency to create thirst. The leaves of it, beaten up and applied
topically, arrest haemorrhage: the kernels, mixed with oil and vinegar,
are used as a liniment for head-ache."

One other consideration, and we are done with Pliny. In Chapter 13,
quoted on page 28, we are told that the peach "has been only introduced
of late years." This can hardly mean during the day of the author. The
peach had probably been cultivated in ancient Rome for a considerable
length of time before Pliny wrote. Vergil and Columella had mentioned
it as a planted plant; Pliny, himself, speaks of the "popularia" as
being grown "everywhere;" and the facts that it was a common article
of food and used in medicine argue an earlier date of introduction
than we might be lead to suppose from Pliny's statement "introduced
of late years." Indeed, knowing the great length of time it takes in
our days of rapid transportation and quick diffusion of knowledge to
accustom ourselves to new food-plants and to persuade agriculturists
to grow them, we should say that the peach must have been grown in
Rome at least two or three centuries to have become so well known as
it seems to have been in Pliny's time. The chief point established by
these quotations is that the peach was well established in Italy at the
beginning of the Christian era.

After leaving Pliny there is a boundless, uncharted waste before we
find another landmark in the history of the peach. In all matters
relating to agriculture and natural history Roman writers for several
centuries but copied the men from whom we have quoted and it was not
until the Sixteenth Century that we have any substantial account of the
further progress of this fruit. During this century, curiously enough,
about the only books on botany and horticulture were commentaries on
Dioscorides, the Greek botanist, who lived and made his reputation in
Christ's time and who for 1600 years thereafter was the sole authority
on botany. Of the ten or twelve commentaries, that of Matthiolus is
most replete with information on the fruits of the times and especially
in the matter of varieties, which he describes in greater detail than
any other man since Pliny. It must be remembered that at this time,
the closing years of the Middle Ages, there was a great awakening in
agriculture and horticulture in southern and western Europe. As the
second descriptive list of peaches we might well quote what Matthiolus
wrote, but, as in Pliny, few of his varieties can be made out, and
Gerarde, writing later in English, amplifies the Latin author so well
that we shall wait for his account.

_The peach in France._--Peach-culture in France probably began about
as early as in Italy, for both Columella and Pliny, as we have seen,
mention the peaches of Gaul with those of Rome. Introduced thus early,
finding suitable soil and climate and easily propagated, so delicious
a fruit as the peach must at once have become a prime favorite in
the orchards of the monasteries, where, tended by monks who were the
most skilled horticulturists of the times, the peach was disseminated
throughout France with the spread of Christianity. France was the
foster-mother of the peach in Europe--from her nurseries the Belgians,
Dutch, Germans and English had their first peach-trees. The history of
the peach in France, then, is an important chapter in the history of
this fruit.

André Leroy, author of the great French work, _Dictionnaire de
Pomologie_, gives in considerable detail the history of the peach in
France and from him we briefly summarize the material he has brought
together in regard to this fruit up to 1600 after which our purposes
are best met by quoting directly from the originals.

According to Leroy[87] only peaches with a downy skin and soft flesh
which adhered to the stone came from Asia--all others, in his belief,
originated in southern France. That any peach came originally from
France we do not agree, for reasons given on a foregoing page. Leaving
the statements of origin in dispute, the first records of peaches in
France are to be found in the quotations from Columella and Pliny
which we have already discussed. Leroy mentions as the second record a
reference to the peach by Bishop Fortunat of Portiers in 530; a third
from the fourteenth Abbot of the monastery of Saint-Denis near Paris in
the year 784; while the great Charlemagne, who in 800 mentions "peaches
of different kinds," furnishes the fourth of Leroy's early records; the
fifth account is taken from the letters of Lupus, Abbot of Ferrieres,
near Amiens, who sent several varieties of peaches to a brother with
instructions as to how to plant the pits, the approximate date being
860.

After these Leroy gives several references to show that the peach
was commonly cultivated from the Ninth Century on but none of the
writers whom he quotes gives a recognizable picture of the kinds of
peaches in their day until we come to the epoch-making agricultural
book of Olivier de Serres, who, in his _Théatre de Agriculture_,
published in 1604, names and describes twelve kinds of peaches. While
these descriptions are so incomplete as to be most tantalizing to one
trying to recognize varieties, yet Olivier de Serres is one of the
outstanding historians of agriculture and his few paragraphs on the
peach constitute a prominent landmark in the history of this fruit
because he names a considerable number of sorts and makes it plain
that the peach is no longer grown as a species but that varieties are
receiving recognition, though, sorry to say, we cannot be sure from the
fragmentary description whether or not any of his kinds have come down
to our time.

From the beginning of the Seventeenth Century the history of the peach
in France is common property to students of pomology. Botanists and
agriculturists by this time had begun to break away from Dioscorides,
Pliny and the other ancients of Greece and Rome; and in France, Germany
and England one herbal after another was beginning to appear in nearly
all of which the peach received attention. Perhaps, since France
plays so important a part in the development of the peach, a brief
recapitulation from French pomological authorities following Olivier de
Serres, showing the increase in varieties of this fruit and bringing
to mind the men who have written in pomology, may be of interest and
profit.

Lectier, agent of the King at Orleans, in a catalog of an orchard
in his charge, published a list of 27 varieties of peaches in 1628.
Thirty-nine years later, 1667, Merlet in his _Abrégé des bons fruits_
names 38 sorts of this fruit. For the next hundred years the increase
in number seems to have been small, for in 1768 Duhamel du Monceau in
_Traité des arbres fruitiers_, the first great pomological work to be
published, describes but 43 peaches. This century, however, was one
in which peach-culture increased enormously throughout France. At the
beginning of the period peaches began to be grown in the shelter of
walls--a method the results of which greatly increased the culture of
this fruit. Calvel, in 1805, names 60 varieties; Louis Noisette, 1839,
lists 60 sorts; André Leroy, 1852, names but 41 varieties, but in an
edition of the same work in 1865, describes 148 peaches; lastly, O.
Thomas in _Guide pratique_ (1876) publishes a list of 355 peaches.

_The peach in Belgium, Holland, Germany and Spain._--In the search
for prominent events in the development of the peach, we are absolved
from the task of tracing in detail the history of this fruit in the
countries named in the heading of this paragraph. These nations have
furnished no landmarks in the history of the peach. France has
provided all with their varieties of this fruit. Indeed, in none,
unless perhaps it be Spain, does the peach find a congenial climate
and certainly in none is the crop of any considerable commercial
value. Amateurs, too, in all but Spain at least, give their attention
to its orchard-associates rather than to the peach. It is true, as
we shall see, that the peach first came to America from Spain and a
considerable number of our varieties are now grouped in what is called
the "Spanish race." But horticulture in Spain, from the few accounts to
be had, is primitive in the extreme--there are no Spanish pomologies
and one cannot conceive that this country has aided appreciably in the
development of the peach.

It is possible--would that we could know the facts--that Spain may have
played an important part in introducing peaches into Europe. For the
earliest Spanish gardens were the work of the Moors and since Moorish
gardens, wonderful in beauty of design, show a strong resemblance
to the gardens of Persia, what more probable than that the Moor,
half-Asiatic, early brought the peach from Persia to Spain.

_The peach in England._--The peach and the gooseberry do not thrive
side by side. England grows the gooseberry to highest perfection, fogs,
rains and cloudy weather seemingly ministering to its wants. But the
peach loves sun, heat and clear skies and if these come not naturally
the peach-tree must be artificially grown. The peach is not, after
centuries of cultivation, acclimatized in England. But in all times,
and of all people, the English have been most fond of gardens and
orchards and so beautiful and delectable a fruit as the peach could not
escape their attention. And so, though under the necessity of growing
this fruit on walls or under glass, England, since the Middle Ages,
has done much toward the development of the peach, the difficulties of
culture seeming to stimulate interest. Her pomological literature is
particularly rich in references to this fruit. We in America, too, are
greatly indebted to England for many varieties of peaches. The history
of the peach in England, then, should afford much interesting and
profitable material in this discussion.

There seems to be no record of the Romans having brought the peach to
England, yet there can be little doubt that they did so. The remains
in England of Roman houses, baths, roads, pavements and bridges,
very similar if not quite so well built as those of Italy, suggest
that there were Roman gardens about these early houses and villas in
England just as there were about those in the great Empire on the
Mediterranean. Moreover, there was an early Saxon name for the peach.
The Latin is "Persica;" the early Anglo-Saxon is "Persoc treou;" the
English, "peach."[88] But gardening in England for most part went
as it came, with the Romans, and, during nearly a thousand years of
struggling with barbarians after the fall of the Roman Empire, the
peach, in common with all other garden-plants needing culture, seems
to have disappeared and was not reintroduced until in the Thirteenth
Century.

That the peach came to England, as a permanent asset, from France, is
so certain from the general history of English horticulture, though
there be no authentic record to substantiate the statement, that we
need consider no alternative. One looks in vain for a satisfactory date
for the beginning of peach-culture in England. In France the monastic
orders, as we have seen, were the conservators of horticulture, as they
were of all arts excepting war, and we feel sure that, as the Church
reached England, some good bishop, father or brother planted peaches in
a monastery garden. Yet our quest of a date is rewarded with nothing
earlier than 1216, in which year, according to the Chronicle of Roger
of Wendover,[89] "King John, at Newark, in the midst of his despair and
disappointment, hastened his end by a surfeit of peaches and ale." From
this we may certainly say that peach-culture was established in England
at least as early as the beginning of the Thirteenth Century.

Two hundred years elapse before we find another reference to the peach
in England. Lydgate, English monk and poet (1375-1440?), as quoted by
the Hon. Mrs. Evelyn Cecil,[90] mentioned peaches among "the fruits
which more common be." Possibly an earlier reference is found in
Chaucer's _Romaunt of the Rose_:

    "And many hoomely trees there were
    That peches, coynes, and apples bere."

English fruit-books commonly accredit the introduction of the peach in
England to a certain Wolf, gardener to Henry VIII, and fix the date at
about 1524, but the quotations given show that this fruit was probably
well established long before the Sixteenth Century. Perhaps it suffices
to say that the peach began to be cultivated in England at the close
of the Middle Ages--a time sufficiently vague to be convenient in the
state of inexactness of our knowledge.

In the Sixteenth Century references to the peach become so numerous
that one cannot reckon with all of them. Selecting only a few notable
names of writers on plants, we have Turner, one of the first and
perhaps the greatest of British herbalists, who mentions the peach in
his _Herball_ of 1551, though rather disparagingly, for he says: "The
peche is no great tre in England that I could se--the apples are soft
flesshy when they are rype, something hory without." Tusser, author of
_Five Hundred Points of Good Husbandrie_, 1573, the best-known work
on farming of the times, gives a list of fruits to be transplanted in
January among which are "Peaches, white and red." Lastly, the century
ends with John Gerarde's _The Herball or Generall Historie of Plantes_,
1597, in which the peach is treated at greater length and to better
advantage than by any previous English author. An improved edition of
Gerarde's herbal was brought out in 1633 by Thomas Johnson who adds
very materially to the discussion of the peach in the first edition and
from this we quote in full all that pertains to varieties:[91]

"There are divers sorts of Peaches besides the foure here set forth
by our Author, but the trees do not much differ in shape, but the
difference chiefly consists in the fruit, whereof I will give you the
names of the choice ones, and such as are to be had from my friend Mr.
Miller in Old-street, which are these; two sorts of Nutmeg Peaches;
The Queenes Peach; the Newington Peach; The grand Carnation Peach;
The Carnation Peach; The blacke Peach; The Melocotone; The White;
The Romane; The Alberza; The Island Peach; Peach du Troy. These are
all good ones. He hath also of that kinde of Peach which some call
_Nucipersica_ or Nectorins, these following kindes; the Roman red, the
best of fruits; the bastard Red; the little dainty greene; the Yellow,
the White; the Russet, which is not so good as the rest. Those that
would see any fuller discourse of these may have recourse to the late
work of Mr. John Parkinson, where they may find more varieties, and
more largely handled, and therefore not necessary for me in this place
to insist upon them.

1. The Peach tree is a tree of no great bignesse: it sendeth forth
divers boughes, which be so brittle, as oftentimes they are broken with
the weight of the fruit or with the winde. The leaves be long, nicked
in the edges, like almost to those of the Walnut tree, and in taste
bitter: the floures be of a light purple colour. The fruit of Peaches
be round, and have as it were a chinke or cleft on the one side; they
are covered with a soft and thin downe or hairy cotton, being white
without, and of a pleasant taste; in the middle whereof is a rough or
rugged stone, wherein is contained a kernell like unto the Almond;
the meate about the stone is of a white color. The root is tough and
yellowish.

2. The red Peach tree is likewise a tree of no great bignesse; it also
sendeth forth divers boughes or branches which be very brittle. The
leaves be long, and nicked in the edges like to the precedent. The
floures be also like unto the former; the fruit or Peaches be round,
and of a red colour on the outside; the meate likewise about the stone
is of a gallant red colour. These kindes of Peaches are very like to
wine in taste, and therefore marvellous pleasant.

3. _Persica praecocia_, or the d'avant Peach tree is like unto the
former, but his leaves are greater and larger. The fruit or Peaches be
of a russet colour on the one side, and on the other side next unto the
Sun of a red colour, but much greater than the red Peach: the stones
whereof are like unto the former: the pulpe or meate within is of a
golden yellow colour, and of a pleasant taste.

4. _Persica lutea_, or the yellow Peach tree is like unto the former
in leaves and flours, his fruit is of a yellow color on the out side,
and likewise on the in side, harder than the rest: in the middle of the
Peach is a wooddy hard and rough stone full of crests and gutters, in
which doth ly a kernel much like to that of the almond, and with such a
like skin: the substance within is white, and of taste somewhat bitter.
The fruit hereof is of greatest pleasure, and of best taste of all the
other of his kinde; although there be found at this day divers other
sorts that are of very good taste, not remembered of the ancient, or
set down by the later Writers, whereof to speake particularly would not
bee great to our pretended purpose, considering wee hasten to an end.

5. There is also kept in some of our choice gardens a kind of Peach
which hath a very double and beautifull floure, but it is seldom
succeeded by any fruit: they call this _Persica flore pleno_, The
double blossomed Peach."

In the first edition Gerarde describes but four peaches, but Johnson,
36 years later, says "there are divers sorts besides the foure here
set forth by our Author" and then names thirteen "choice ones, such as
are to be had from my friend Miller in Old-street," who "hath also"
six varieties "of that kinde of Peach which some call _Nucipersia_
or _Nectorins_." Either Gerarde neglects the peach or varieties
increased greatly in 36 years--probably the former. We have not found
the nectarine mentioned before Johnson's revision of Gerarde in 1633
and probably this fruit was not well known in England long before,
for Parkinson, discussing them in 1629, says "they have been with us
not many years." This brings us to Parkinson's list of peaches, which
contains, as Johnson says, a "fuller discourse," than Gerarde. John
Parkinson (1567-1650), another British herbalist, who also cultivated a
famous garden in London, devotes a chapter to the peach and another to
the nectarine. These being short, and every word pertinent, we publish
them in full:[92]

"The great white Peach is white on the outside as the meate is also,
and is a good well rellished fruit.

The small white Peach is all one with the greater, but differeth in
size.

The Carnation Peach is of three sorts, two are round, and the third
long; they are all of a whitish colour, shadowed over with red, and
more red on the side is next the sunne: the lesser round is the more
common, and the later ripe.

The grand Carnation Peach is like the former round Peach, but greater,
and is as late ripe, that is, in the beginning of September.

The red Peach is an exceeding well rellished fruit.

The russet Peach is one of the most ordinary Peaches in the Kingdome,
being of a russet colour on the outside, and but of a reasonable
rellish, farre meaner then many other.

The Island Peach is a faire Peach, and of a very good rellish.

The Newington Peach is a very good Peach, and of an excellent good
rellish, being of a whitish greene colour on the outside, yet halfe
reddish, and is ripe about Bartholmew tide.

The yellow Peach is of a deepe yellow colour; there be hereof divers
sorts, some good and some bad.

The St. James Peach is the same with the Queenes Peach, here belowe set
downe, although some would make them differing.

The Melocotone Peach is a yellow faire Peach, but differing from the
former yellow both in forme and taste, in that this hath a small
crooked end or point for the most part, it is ripe before them, and
better rellished then any of them.

The Peach _du Troas_ is a long and great whitish yellow Peach, red on
the outside, early ripe, and is another kinde of Nutmeg Peach.

The Queenes Peach is a faire great yellowish browne Peach, shadowed as
it were over with deepe red, and is ripe at Bartholmew tide, of a very
pleasant good taste.

The Romane Peach is a very good Peach, and well rellished.

The Durasme or Spanish Peach is of a darke yellowish red colour on the
outside, and white within.

The blacke Peach is a great large Peach, of a very darke browne colour
on the outside, it is of a waterish taste, and late ripe.

The Alberza Peach is late ripe, and of a reasonable good taste.

The Almond Peach, so called, because the kernell of the stone is
sweete, like the Almond, and the fruit also somewhat pointed like the
Almond in the huske; it is early ripe, and like the Newington Peach,
but lesser.

The Man Peach is of two sorts, the one longer then the other, both of
them are good Peaches, but the shorter is the better rellished.

The Cherry Peach is a small Peach, but well tasted.

The Nutmeg Peach is of two sorts, one that will be hard when it is
ripe, and eateth not so pleasantly as the other, which will bee soft
and mellow; they are both small Peaches, having very little or no
resemblance at all to a Nutmeg, except in being a little longer than
round, and are early ripe."

"Many other sorts of Peaches there are, whereunto wee can give no
especial name; and therefore I passe them over in silence."

Agriculture seems to have received a great impetus in England about
the middle of the Seventeenth Century, possibly with the beginning of
Cromwell's Protectorate in 1653. Toward the end of the century the
momentum began to carry pomology with it, the most apparent results of
the movement at this distance, as it affects the peach, being a great
output of new varieties and of fruit-books in which the new offerings
were described. From this time the progress of peach-culture in England
assumed so great proportions that space does not permit following
it further in this brief account--a task unnecessary, too, for the
pomological works of Lawrence, Switzer, Langley, Brookshaw, Miller,
Rea, Hitt, Abercrombie and Forsyth, to select the most prominent names,
cover the century well and are still accessible in large libraries.
Moreover, by this time the peach was well established in America and we
must take up its history there.


THE PEACH IN AMERICA

One of the first fruits of the heroic age of Spanish discovery in
America was the naturalization in the New World of animals and plants
which the discoverers brought with them. Most notable of these are the
wild horses of the western plains and the Indian peaches of southern
forests. Long before the English, Dutch, French or Swedes planted
colonies in America, peaches, introduced by Spaniards, were common
property of the Indians in southeastern and southwestern America. The
Spaniards came to the New World to conquer and brought swords more
often than fruits, but a cheery note in the long dirge of human woes
suffered by the Aztecs is found in the rapid dissemination of the
peach, among other domesticated plants, at an early period in Mexico.
Which of the Spanish conquerors brought the peach or when it came does
not appear but we have record that less than fifty years after Cortez
conquered the country the peach was, apparently, commonly grown in
Mexico. The beginnings of peach-culture on this continent are, then, to
be sought in the region south of the Rio Grande.

_The peach in Mexico._--Authority for the statement that the peach was
cultivated in Mexico less than fifty years after the Spanish conquest
is found in a Spanish book published by Molina in 1571, in which three
peaches are described in Hispano-Aztec compound words as follows:
"_xuchipal durazno_, 'red-colored peach,' _cuztic durazno_, 'yellow
peach,' and _xocotlmelocoton_, 'peach fruit.'"[93] That the peach is
to be found everywhere in Mexico, cultivated and as an escape from
cultivation, where climate permits is common knowledge to pomologists,
explorers having from time to time brought to light sorts worthy of
introduction in our southern states, and frequent mention is made of
this fruit by visitors to that country.

These Mexican peaches become of special interest to American
fruit-growers because they constitute, with the offspring of early
introductions in Florida, what pomologists call the "Spanish Race" of
this fruit. "American Race" is a more fitting name, for these peaches
are an American product. Four centuries of reproduction from seed, in a
climate and soil different from any previously imposed upon them, and
abnormally short generations have given to this continent a group of
peaches with many characters in common.

Tracing further the history of the peaches that early came to Mexico,
we find evidence that in a comparatively short time they had been taken
northward into New Mexico, Arizona and the Californias. It is barely
possible that from the same source the peach was eventually carried as
far eastward as the Mississippi, for early explorers found naturalized
peaches in the valley of this great river. No doubt the Jesuit and
Franciscan fathers, chief representatives of the Roman Catholic
Church in the early settlement of Mexico and southwestern America,
early carried the peach from place to place, for, as advance guards
of civilization, these men usually planted fruits, grains, vegetables
and flowers at the missions they founded. Therefore, it is hardly too
much to say that the history of the peach in the southwest follows the
establishment, one after another, of the old missions, beginning in
America with the settlement of Sante Fe in 1605 and continuing until
Spanish rule passed into that of the United States.

That the padres of the early religious orders planted gardens and
orchards as they planted the cross of Christianity among the Indian
tribes in the southwest may be seen from such accounts of the mission
as the following, written by a Spanish officer traveling in what is
now New Mexico in 1799:[94] "The Moquinos are the most industrious of
the many Indian nations that inhabit and have been discovered in that
portion of America. They till the earth with great care, and apply to
all their fields the manures proper for each crop. The same cereals and
pulse are raised by them, that are everywhere produced by the civilized
population in our provinces. They are attentive to their kitchen
gardens, and have all the varieties of fruit-bearing trees it has been
in their power to procure. The peach tree yields abundantly."

The antiquity of peach-culture among southern Indians, from Mexico
to Florida, is shown by the fact that, among the prominent tribes of
this region, there is a distinct name for the peach but the names of
other introduced fruits, and of some native ones, are derived from that
of the peach. Thus, according to W. R. Gerard,[95] who gave careful
study to Indian names of plants in at least four Indian languages, the
name of the peach is the radical while that of several plums is the
equivalent of "little peach," "deer's peach" and "barren peach" while
the cultivated apples and pears were by some Indians called "big peach."

As these Indian peaches have cut a prominent figure in furnishing
stocks for American peach-orchards, are the source from which came a
number of varieties, and, more than all else, gave inspiration for
planting permanent orchards of this fruit on American soil, we may well
consider them at greater length.

_Indian peaches._--In many parts of the South, from the Ohio to
the Gulf and from the Atlantic to the Great Plains, the peach
is naturalized and has run into many varieties of a peculiar and
well-recognized type. This is the "Indian Peach" of this vast region,
the chief distinguishing characters of which are: Trees with long,
spreading limbs; young growth with purplish bark; small, flat,
comparatively persistent leaves; blossoms large; season sometimes
covering several weeks; fruit small, streaked with red beneath the
skin, giving it a striped appearance, heavily pubescent; flesh usually
yellow; ripening very late, season long, and of poor or indifferent
quality. The trees of these Indian peaches have a smack of wildness
which the best of pruning does not wholly subdue. The aborigines
undoubtedly obtained peaches from Spaniards settling in both Mexico and
Florida. The first source we have discussed. We come now to the second.

No doubt the Spaniards planted peaches in their first settlement of
Florida at Saint Augustine in 1565. We have no record of the fact but
early Indian traders found the natives of northern Florida and the
neighboring states growing peaches in and about their villages in such
quantity and with such familiarity as to suggest that the several
tribes had long known this fruit. Hilton, an Englishman, who visited
Florida a hundred years after the Spaniards established themselves at
Saint Augustine, records that: "the country abounds with grapes, large
figs and peaches."[96] The besetting sins of our early explorers were
hasty generalization and exaggeration, and since the Indian peach, in
what is now Florida at any rate, does not "abound" we must believe that
Hilton was either farther north or was dissembling. Of the abundance
of Indian peaches in the other Gulf States, there can be no doubt, for
John Bartram, America's first great botanist, a man of note among all
American naturalists, in the account of his travels through this region
in 1765-1766 frequently mentions the peach as wild or as having been
cultivated by the Indians.

Thus, Bartram says, speaking of the Cherokee town of Sticoe, on or near
the Savannah River:[97] "On these towering hills appeared the ruins
of the ancient famous town of Sticoe. Here was a vast Indian mount
or tumulus and great terrace, on which stood the council-house, with
banks encompassing their circus; here were also old Peach and Plumb
orchards; some of the trees appeared yet thriving and fruitful." And
again, discussing the ruins of a French town near Mobile, Alabama,
he says:[98] "I ascended the bank of the river, and penetrating the
groves, came presently to old fields, where I observed ruins of ancient
habitations, there being abundance of Peach and Fig trees, loaded with
fruit, which affording a very acceptable dessert after the heats and
toil of the day, and evening drawing on apace, I concluded to take up
my quarters here for the night." And still again, he found on Pearl
Island:[99] "Besides the native forest trees and shrubs already noted,
manured fruit trees arrive in this island to the utmost degree of
perfection, as Pears, Peaches, Figs, Grape Vines, Plumbs, &c."

Bartram in his travels found the peach so widely and abundantly
naturalized that he was inclined to believe America to be its habitat.
At least Kalm,[100] the Swedish naturalist, who visited Bartram in
1748-1749 reports that Bartram "looked upon peaches as an original
American fruit, and as growing wild in the greater part of America."

In 1758 Le Page Du Pratz, who lived on a plantation in Louisiana for
several years and wrote a history of the French colony, says that the
natives had peaches and figs when the French settled in Louisiana in
1698. He probably errs, however, in stating that the natives got their
trees from the English colony of Carolina since the English did not
settle in Carolina until 1670. No doubt the Indians had long before had
peaches and figs from the Spaniards of Florida or Mexico. The account
which this historian gives of early peach-culture in Louisiana is worth
printing in full:[101] "The natives had doubtless got the peach trees
and fig trees from the English colony of Carolina, before the French
established themselves in Louisiana. The peaches are of the kind which
we call alberges; are of the size of the fist, adhere to the stone, and
contain so much water that they make a kind of wine of it. The figs are
either blue or white; are large and well enough tasted. Our colonists
plant the peach stones about the end of February, and suffer the trees
to grow exposed to all weathers. In the third year they will gather
from one tree at least two hundred peaches, and double that number for
six or seven years more, when the tree dies irrecoverably. As new trees
are so easily produced, the loss of the old ones is not in the least
regretted."

There are many indirect references to peaches in the Mississippi Valley
most of which can be traced to Father Hennepin's account of peaches
in Louisiana. He says:[102] "The peaches there are like those of
Europe and bear very good fruit in such abundance that the savages are
often obliged to prop up the trees with forked sticks." It turns out,
however, that Father Hennepin was the Baron Munchausen of the early
French explorers, it being doubtful whether he was ever farther down
the Mississippi than the mouth of the Illinois. Probably, therefore,
we must put much of what early writers say of the great abundance
of peaches in this region to the soaring imagination of this early
religious explorer. Yet these reports are credited by so careful a man
as Kalm, who writes:[103] "I have been told by all those who have made
journies to the southern parts of Canada, and to the river Mississippi,
that the woods there abound with peach-trees, which bear excellent
fruit, and that the Indians of those parts say that those trees have
been there since times immemorial."

A little later we have reliable information that the peach was
naturalized in parts of the Mississippi Valley at least, for Thomas
Nuttall, leading botanist of his time and a thoroughly reliable
reporter, traveling in Arkansas in 1819, writes:[104] "The thermometer
towards noon rises to seventy degrees and the peach and plum trees,
almost equally naturalized, have nearly finished blooming." And,
again,[105] "The peach of Persia is already naturalized throughout the
forests of Arkansa." From this we may picture wild peaches as having
grown for generations in parts of Arkansas and, no doubt, of the now
famous Ozark region, where, we are told, peach-trees in abundance now
decorate, with flower and fruit, primeval forests.

Reserving the best description of Indian peaches to the last we now
turn from Arkansas to the Carolinas. Here, in 1700, John Lawson, a
surveyor, who in his work had ample opportunity to know the country,
wrote about the wild and cultivated plants of the region. Lawson,
although not a trained naturalist, was a keen observer, a lover of
nature and much interested in the agricultural development of the
Carolinas. Moreover, he writes so simply, directly, and in a tone so
temperate, in contrast to the declamatory style of the times, that one
accepts without question what he says. We feel we are justified in
quoting at some length Lawson's description of Indian peaches:[106]

"All peaches with us are standing; neither have we any wall fruit in
Carolina, for we have heat enough, and therefore do not require it. We
have a great many sorts of this fruit, which all thrive to admiration,
peach trees coming to perfection, with us, as easily as the weeds. A
peach falling to the ground brings a peach tree that shall bear in
three years, or sometimes sooner. Eating peaches in our orchards makes
them come up so thick from the kernel, that we are forced to take a
great deal of care to weed them out, otherwise they make our land a
wilderness of peach trees. They generally bear so full that they break
great part of their limbs down. We have likewise very fair nectarines,
especially the red, that clings to the stone; the other yellow fruit,
that leaves the stone. Of the last I have a tree that most years brings
me fifteen or twenty bushels. I see no foreign fruit like this, for
thriving in all sorts of land, and bearing its fruit to admiration. I
want to be satisfied about one sort of this fruit, which the Indians
claim as their own, and affirm they had it growing amongst them before
any Europeans came to America.

The fruit I will describe as exactly as I can. The tree grows very
large, most commonly as big as a handsome apple tree; the flowers are
of a reddish, murrey color, the fruit is rather more downy than the
yellow peach, and commonly very large and soft, being very full of
juice. They part freely from the stone, and the stone is much thicker
than all the other peach stones we have, which seems to me that it is
a spontaneous fruit of America; yet in those parts of America that
we inhabit, I never could hear that any peach trees were ever found
growing in the woods; neither have the foreign Indians, that live
remote from the English, any other sort. And those living amongst us
have a hundred of this sort for one other. They are a hardy fruit,
and are seldom damaged by the north-east blast, as others are. Of
this sort we make vinegar; wherefore we call them vinegar peaches, and
sometimes Indian peaches.

This tree grows to a vast bigness, exceeding most apple trees. They
bear well, though sometimes an early spring comes on in February, and
perhaps when the tree is fully blown, the cloudy, north-east winds,
which attend the end of that month, or the beginning of March, destroy
most of the fruit. The biggest apricot tree I ever saw, as they told
me, was grafted on a peach stock in the ground. I know of no other sort
with us, than the common. We generally raise this fruit from the stone,
which never fails to bring the same fruit. Likewise our peach stones
effect the same, without so much as once missing to produce the same
sort that the stone came from."

_Peaches in the colonies._--The first peaches in the American colonies
must have been planted at Jamestown for, in 1629, Captain John Smith
writes of "peaches in abundance."[107] The trees, however, seem to have
been neglected for, continuing, Smith says: "Apples, Peares, Apricocks,
Vines, figges, and other fruits some have planted, that prospered
exceedingly; but their diligence about Tobacco left them to be spoiled
by the cattell; yet now they beginne to revive." The settlement in
Virginia at that time, so soon after the Indian massacres, was small
and there could have been but few trees so that Smith's "abundance"
was but as a grain of sand on the seashore with the many thousands of
bushels required to make an abundance at the present time.

Despite the neglect of fruit to attend to tobacco which Smith laments,
the planting of orchards must have gone on apace, for in 1633 a Dutch
sea-captain named De Vries visiting Virginia describes the Menife
plantation, famous in the colony at that time, as having a garden
containing rosemary, sage, marjoram and thyme, the apple, pear and
cherry while the house itself was surrounded by peach-trees.[108] Three
years later, 1642, Berkeley became governor of the colony and we are
told that about his house at Green Spring there were fifteen hundred
apple, peach, apricot, quince and other fruit-trees.[109] Robert
Evelyn, writing forty years after the settlement of Jamestown says:
"Peaches better than Apricocks by some doe feed hogs, one man hath ten
thousand trees."[110]

Fruit-growing in colonial Virginia was not without promoters and
one, a Colonel Norwood, had the persuasive eloquence of the barkers
for get-rich-quick orchard-planting concerns of our own times.
Colonel Norwood, an Englishman, visited Virginia in 1649 and on his
return wrote:[111] "Oranges, Lemons, Pine-aples, Plantanes, Peaches,
Apricocks, Peares, Apels, in a word all sort of excellent Fruits
will grow there in full perfection: you may sleepe whilst they are
growing, after their setting or engrafting, there needes no more labour
but your prayers, that they may prosper, and now and then an eye to
prevent their casualties, wounds or diseases." No doubt Norwood is over
enthusiastic in his praises and yet it is true that there were few
pests of the peach at this time, most of these coming, one by one, with
the development of the fruit-industry. About all that any fruit needed
at this time was, to use a modern political phase, "watchful waiting."

Considering the agricultural efforts that must have been required
to produce tobacco, then the medium of exchange at home and abroad,
and of corn, which in Virginia was the staff of life, one wonders
that fruit received the attention indicated by the following account
written in 1656 of a still earlier period:[112] "The Country is full of
gallant Orchards, and the fruit generally more luscious and delightful
than here, witnesse the Peach and Quince, the latter may be eaten
raw savourily, the former differs as much exceeds ours as the best
relished apple we have doth the crabb, and of both most excellent and
comfortable drinks are made." Perhaps the explanation of the popularity
of fruits in Virginia is to be found in the statement that from fruits
are made "most excellent and comfortable drinks." On the word of
Captain John Smith we have it that "few of the upper-class planters
drink any water."[113] Wine was not made in quantity in the colonies
and liquors distilled from grains were not known so that thirst, in
this case the mother of invention, caused the colonists to turn to
peaches and apples for strong drink.

Prohibition was not preached in the colonies nor in the states until
long after the Revolution and King Alcohol dominated every part of the
New World. Distilling spirituous liquors from rye and corn seems not
to have been practiced, if the art were known, until the beginning
of the Nineteenth Century. The upper classes drank wine, but cider,
perry, peach-vinegar and similar fermented fruit-juices were in common
use by the middle and lower classes while the carousing population
of the whole country, and there seems to have been many liberal
tipplers, slaked their thirst with rum, apple-jack and peach-brandy.
So much on drinking, not to point a moral or adorn a tale, but to
bring out the fact that fruit-growing in America had its beginning
and for two hundred years had almost its whole sustenance in the
demand for strong drink. This is shown in almost every page of the
horticultural literature of the times and in the laws of the colonies
restricting prices and levying taxes on liquors made from fruits.
Peaches were grown in quantities wherever they could be made to succeed
in the colonies, not for the fruit itself, but for the making of
peach-vinegar, a sort of cider, and peach-brandy, a distilled liquor.

By the end of the first hundred years in America the English seem to
have brought orcharding to a fine state of perfection in Virginia,
the peach succeeding then, by all accounts, rather better than now.
Bruce[114] gives an admirable summing-up of orchard-conditions at the
end of the period named: "In the closing years of the seventeenth
century, there were few plantations in Virginia which did not possess
orchards of apple and peach trees, pear, plum, apricot, and quince.
The number of trees was often very large. The orchard of Robert Hide
of York contained three hundred peach and three hundred apple trees.
There were twenty-five hundred apple trees in the orchard of Colonel
Fitzhugh. Each species of fruit was represented by many varieties;
thus, of the apple, there were mains, pippins, russentens, costards,
marigolds, kings, magitens and batchelors; of the pear, bergamy and
warden. The quince was greater in size, but less aciduated than the
English quince; on the other hand, the apricot and plum were inferior
in quality to the English, not ripening in the same perfection.
Cherries grew in notable abundance. So great was the productive
capacity of the peach that some of the landowners planted orchards of
the tree for the mere purpose of using the fruit to fatten their hogs;
on some plantations, as many as forty bushels are said to have been
knocked down to the swine in the course of a single season."

Treasure after treasure of experience and narrative may be found in
tracing the history of the peach in Virginia but space permits only
the references that best illuminate the development and culture of
this fruit in America. Two accounts must serve to give an idea of the
peach in Virginia in the Eighteenth Century. Robert Beverly, in his
_History of Virginia_ gives a good idea of the culture, kinds and uses
of peaches in the early part of the Eighteenth Century:[115] "Peaches,
nectarines and apricots, as well as plumbs and cherries, grow there
upon standard trees. They commonly bear in three years from the stone,
and thrive so exceedingly, that they seem to have no need of grafting
or inoculating, if any body would be so good a husband; and truly I
never heard of any that did graft either plum, nectarine, peach or
apricot in that country, before the first edition of this book."

"Peaches and nectarines I believe to be spontaneous, somewhere or
other on that continent, for the Indians have, and ever had greater
variety, and finer sorts of them than the English. The best sort of
these cling to the stone, and will not come off clear, which they call
plum nectarines, and plum peaches or clint stones. Some of these are
twelve or thirteen inches in the girt. These sorts of fruits are raised
so easily there, that some good husbands plant great orchards of them,
purposely for their hogs; and others make a drink of them, which they
call mobby, and either drink it as cider, or distill it off for brandy.
This makes the best spirit next to grapes."

The text for the only other account we have space to publish for the
period under consideration is found in Washington's diary for February
22, 1760. "Laid in part, the Worm of a fence around the Peach orchard."
The information in Washington's short statement is inconsequential but
from it we form a pleasant picture of peach-growing at Mount Vernon.
Washington owned a distillery and in another place we learn that "the
distiller made every fall a good deal of apple, peach and persimmon
brandy." To supply the needs of the plantation in fruit and brandy,
there must have been a considerable number of trees, all seedlings, but
set in straight rows, for Washington, the surveyor, would have no botch
work in aligning and spacing. The fence, the worm of which Washington
was laying on his twenty-eighth birthday, if typical of the times, was
of split walnut-rails, laid zigzag. Eventually it became trellised
with wild grapes, Virginia creepers, honeysuckles and morning-glories.
The corners grew up to sassafras, brambles and other plants of the
region. In spring, we picture then, the pink-petalled trees, in the
peach-orchard at Mount Vernon, making obeisance to the Father of his
Country as he rode the rounds of the plantation; in summer the shady
shrub-grown corners of the worm-fence, sweet-scented with honeysuckle
or aromatic with sassafras, furnished refreshing resting places as
Washington watched his harvest; later, the orchard, voluptuous with
fruit, gave gustatory promises of products to eat and drink and
dazzled the eye with autumn colors of Virginia creeper, wild grape and
sassafras. The peach-orchard not only served the appetite at Mount
Vernon but was one of the most picturesque spots on the plantation.

Let the foregoing accounts of Smith, Bruce and Beverly suffice to give
status to early peach-growing in Virginia. They apply equally well to
Maryland, these neighboring colonies, it will be remembered, being
called by one of our authors, "Leah and Rachel or the Two Fruitful
Sisters." Of the peach in the states to the south at least a few words
ought to be said.

In the discussion of Indian peaches we have had a good account of the
early history of the peach in the Carolinas by Lawson. We now show the
status of peach-growing in this region at a later period. In an account
of South Carolina and Georgia, said to have been written by General
Oglethorpe, printed in London in 1733, we find the following:[116]

"Mulberries, both black and white, are natives of this soil, and are
found in the woods, as are many other sorts of fruit trees of excellent
kinds, and the growth of them is surprisingly swift; for a peach,
apricot, or nectarine tree will, from the stone, grow to be a bearing
tree in four or five years' time."

"They have oranges, lemons, apples and pears, besides the peach and
apricot mentioned before. Some of these are so delicious that whoever
tastes them will despise the insipid, watery taste of those we have in
England; and yet such is the plenty of them that they are given to the
hogs in great quantities."

A little later, 1740, Mr. Thomas Jones of Savannah wrote to Mr. John
Lyde concerning the contents of his town-garden as follows:[117]

"As to our fruit, the most common are peaches and nectarines (I believe
that I had a hundred bushels of the former this year in my little
garden in town); we have also apples of divers sorts, chincopin nuts,
walnut, chestnut, hickory, and ground nuts."

The third writer is Sir John Oldmixon who quotes a Mr. Archdale in
regard to the fruits of Carolina. He writes:[118]

"Everything generally grows there that will grow in any part of Europe,
there being already many sorts of fruits, as apples, pears, apricots,
nectarines, etc. They that once taste of them will despise the watery,
washy taste of those in England. There's such plenty of them that they
are given to the hogs. In four or five years they come from a stone to
be bearing trees."

The same author is worth quoting in regard to the early culture of
the Melocoton peach in Virginia.[119] "Here is such plenty of peaches
that they give them to their hogs; some of them, called malachotoons,
are as big as a lemon and resemble it a little." The history of the
word melocoton, by the way, is interesting. It comes from the Latin
_melum cotoneum,_ literally, apple-quince. The corruption is of Spanish
origin and in Spain "melocoton" is a common name for the peach. The
word, however, is now common enough in English, no less than 29 variant
spellings being found in the dictionaries and every extensive list of
peaches having a number of varieties with melocoton as a prefix or an
affix to the name.

Passing now to the northern colonies we find that the history of the
peach in Pennsylvania begins with the history of the State. William
Penn founded Philadelphia in 1682 and a year later, in describing the
new country, names the peach as one of its assets:[120] "There are also
very good peaches, and in great quantities; not an Indian plantation
without them, but whether naturally here at first, I know not. However,
one may have them by bushels for little; they make a pleasant drink;
and I think not inferior to any peach you have in England, except the
true Newington."

It would be hard to find a part of the earth better fitted in soil and
climate for sure and abounding harvests of peaches than the Chesapeake
peach-belt extending up through Maryland and taking in Delaware, New
Jersey and eastern Pennsylvania. We may be sure, then, that if the
Indians were growing peaches in the abundance described by Penn in
what is now Philadelphia, peach-orchards were not less common in all
of the Chesapeake belt. That the whole region was bountifully supplied
with this delicious fruit when settled by whites is further indicated,
however, in a letter written by Mahlon Stacy from the "Falls of the
Delaware," New Jersey, in 1680, to his brother Revell in England. He
says:[121]

"I have travelled through most of the places that are settled, and some
that are not; and in every place I find the country very apt to answer
the expectation of the diligent. I have seen orchards laden with fruit
to admiration; their very limbs torn to pieces by the weight, and most
delicious to the taste and lovely to behold. I have seen an apple tree
from a pippin kernel yield a barrel of curious cider, and peaches in
such plenty that some people took their carts a peach gathering; I
could not but smile at the conceit of it; they are very delicate fruit,
and hang almost like our onions that are tied on ropes."

We are told in Watson's Annals of Philadelphia[122] that one of the
remarkable characteristics of Germantown, Pennsylvania, in 1700 was
that the whole of the main street, one mile in length, "was fronted
with blooming peach trees."

An account of peaches in the Delaware region as late as the middle of
the Eighteenth Century shows that even then the peach was regarded
as indigenous "like maize and tobacco." This quotation, too, is
interesting because it gives a glimpse of cultural methods, kinds, uses
and danger from frost. The author was a Swedish clergyman, a resident
of the region for some years. He writes:[123]

"Peach trees stand within an enclosure by themselves; grow even in the
stoniest places without culture. The fruit is the most delicious that
the mouth can taste, and often allowable in fevers. One kind, called
clingstones, are considered the best; in these the stones are not loose
from the fruit as in the others. Many have peach orchards chiefly for
the purpose of feeding their swine, which are not allowed to run at
large. They first bloom, in March, the flowers coming out before the
leaves, and are often injured by the frosts; they are ripe toward the
close of August. This fruit is regarded as indigenous, like maize and
tobacco; for as far as any Indians have been seen in the interior of
the country these plants are found to extend."

Pressed for space, we must conclude the discussion of early
peach-growing in this region by quoting an account of the industry
as it existed in 1750 when the Swedish naturalist, Kalm, visited the
colonies and spent some time in Pennsylvania and neighboring states.
Writing of orchards he says:[124] "Every countryman, even a common
peasant, has commonly an orchard near his house in which all sorts of
fruit, such as peaches, apples, pears, cherries, and others, are in
plenty. The peaches were now almost ripe. They are rare in Europe,
particularly in Sweden, for in that country hardly any people besides
the rich taste them. But here every countryman had an orchard full of
peach trees, which were covered with such quantities of fruit, that we
could scarcely walk in the orchard, without treading on those peaches
which were fallen off; many of which were always left on the ground,
and only part of them was sold in town, and the rest was consumed by
the family and strangers; for every one that passed by, was at liberty
to go into the orchard, and to gather as many of them as he wanted.
Nay, this fine fruit was frequently given to the swine.

This fruit is, however, sometimes kept for winter use, and for this
purpose they are prepared in the following manner. The fruit is cut
into four parts, the stone thrown away, and the fruit put upon a
thread, on which they are exposed to the sunshine in the open air, till
they are sufficiently dry. They are then put into a vessel for winter.
But this manner of drying them is not very good, because the rain of
this season very easily spoils and putrifies them, whilst they hang in
the open air. For this reason a different method is followed by others,
which is by far the most eligible. The peaches are as before cut into
four parts, are then either put upon a thread, or laid upon a board,
and so hung up in the air when the sun shines. Being dried in some
measure, or having lost their juice by this means, they are put into
an oven, out of which the bread has but just been taken, and are left
in it for a while. But they are soon taken out and brought into the
fresh air; and after that they are again put into the oven, and this is
repeated several times until they are as dry as they ought to be. For
if they were dried up at once in the oven, they would shrivel up too
much, and lose part of their flavour. They are then put up and kept for
the winter. They are either baked into tarts and pyes, or boiled and
prepared as dried apples and pears are in Sweden. Several people here
dry and preserve their apples in the same manner as their peaches.

The peach trees have, as I am told, been first planted here by the
Europeans. But at present they succeed very well, and require even less
care than our apple and pear trees."

Kalm[125] also gives an account of the colonists' method of making
peach-brandy, which, as we have seen, plays so important a part in
the peach-industry of the times. Brandy-making, according to Kalm,
was simplicity itself and it is not to be wondered that in those days
of strong drink peach-brandy was popular. The following is Kalm's
description: "They make brandy from peaches here, after the following
method. The fruit is cut asunder, and the stones are taken out. The
pieces of fruit are then put into a vessel, where they are left for
three weeks or a month, till they are quite putrid. They are then put
into the distilling vessel, and the brandy is made and afterwards
distilled over again. This brandy is not for people who have a more
refined taste, but it is only for the common kind of people, such as
workmen and the like."

Kalm, travelling from Trenton to Princeton, found the country thickly
settled and full of orchards:[126]

"During the greater part of the day we had very extensive corn fields
on both sides of the road. * * * Near almost every farm was a spacious
orchard full of peach and apple trees, and in some of them the fruit
had fallen from the trees in such quantities as to cover nearly the
whole surface. Part of it they left to rot, because they could not take
it all in and consume it. Wherever we passed by we were always welcome
to go into the fine orchards and gather our hats and pockets full of
the choicest fruit, without the possessors so much as looking after it."

The soil and climate of Long Island and the lower reaches of the
Hudson, similar to those of the Chesapeake peach-belt, are so well
adapted to peaches that we may be sure that the early settlers in New
York eked out their scanty fare with this fruit soon after settlements
were made. Trade with the colonies to the south, where peaches were
common before the Dutch were established on Manhattan Island, began
almost immediately after the arrival of the Hollanders in America, and
knowledge of the adaptability of peaches to conditions in the New World
was no doubt quickly acquired from Virginia, if, indeed, the aborigines
were not cultivating this fruit in the region as Penn found them
doing on the site of Philadelphia. Yet careful search in the colonial
records of New York shows no early accounts of peaches, there being
few such accounts, by the way, of any agricultural product, no one
having undertaken the task of describing the natural and agricultural
resources of this State as was done by several able observers for
Virginia and the New England states.

No doubt, however, orchard-planting as a general practice was long
delayed in New York because of political and economic conditions. The
Dutch came to America as traders and not as home-makers, and almost
from the day they landed were in trouble with both their savage and
their civilized neighbors so that actual or petty warfare prevented
them from planting orchards until in 1647 when the reins of government
were taken in hand by Peter Stuyvesant, a farmer as well as a soldier,
who at once set about encouraging the planting of fields, gardens
and orchards. He brought, we are told, fruits, flowers, farm and
truck-crops from the neighboring colonies and Holland and these he not
only planted on Manhattan Island but sent to the settlements up the
Hudson. The peach may readily be grown in suitable soils from Albany
down the river to New York, and, by the end of the Seventeenth Century,
we are told by travelers, naturalists and missionaries that this fruit
was in common cultivation by the whites and was even rudely tilled by
the Indians of the Hudson Valley.

But, in eastern New York, away from the coast, the peach did not find
the climate as congenial as in the colonies to the south and then, too,
from the following record, the peach-borer early became troublesome.
Kalm says:[127] "Peach-trees have often been planted here (Albany,
New York) and never would succeed well. This was attributed to a worm
which lives in the ground, and eats through the root, so that the tree
dies. Perhaps the severity of the winter contributes much to it." We
have another reference to show that winter-killing must have been a
discouraging factor in peach-culture in this part of New York in early
days as it is now. Cadwallader Colden, appointed first surveyor-general
of New York in 1719, and in 1761 lieutenant-governor of the Province,
a botanist of note, who had a patent of land in what is now Orange
County, wrote in 1737 that cold had killed the peach-trees the previous
winter.

The traveler who visits New York today finds many orchards on the
Hudson but in them he sees comparatively few peaches. The peach is
much more at home two hundred miles west about the Central Lakes and
along the shores of Lake Ontario. Here, it is interesting to learn,
peaches were grown in considerable quantities long before the region
was settled by the whites--how long we have no record nor do we know
much of the character of the fruit. John Bartram in his _Travels from
Pensilvania to Onondago, Oswego and the Lake Ontario_, an account of
a journey made in 1743, mentions apples, peaches, plums and grapes
growing about the Indian villages passed through on his route. Whether
these peaches came from the white settlements nearer the Atlantic,
or at a much earlier date from the Indians to the South, or both, we
cannot even surmise.

Sullivan's army, which came to this region in 1779 to chastise the
Indians, found and destroyed considerable numbers of fruit-trees,
among them many peaches. After Sullivan's raid the region was quickly
settled by whites who, following the examples of the Indians, planted
apples and peaches, the orchard soon becoming a prominent asset to
every farm. Collections of pioneer papers frequently mention the great
adaptability of these lake-regions to peaches. In Conover's _History
of Kanadasaga and Geneva_[128] there are sixteen references to the
peach-orchards about Seneca and Cayuga lakes in and about the year
1800. As in the South, the products seem to have been used chiefly in
making peach-brandy.

David Thomas,[129] Aurora, Cayuga County, New York, was the pioneer
horticulturist, fruit-grower and nurseryman in this part of the State
and soon after coming to New York in 1805, we learn from several
references to his orchards and nurseries in his own writings, began
planting peaches. All of the named varieties from the South and East
were tried in his orchard and if valuable were propagated and sold from
his nursery. According to his son, John Jacob Thomas, the pomological
writer, he had in 1830 "the most extensive and valuable collection of
bearing trees west of the Hudson." Through him the western counties of
the State were stocked with named peaches and other fruits.

Of peaches in the New England colonies, we need say but little. Except
in favored parts of Connecticut and Massachusetts, this fruit was
little grown in these northern colonies. It is not at all probable that
New England Indians ever planted peaches and for a generation after the
whites came the struggle for the necessities of life kept them from
indulging in so great a luxury as a peach-orchard. Strong drink was
as commonly used by the Puritans as by the Churchmen in Virginia and
peach-brandy would have been as acceptable but it was easier to produce
cider, and rum from the West Indies could be had with little trouble.
Still, peaches were sparingly grown in the New England colonies.

The Massachusetts Company in 1629 sent peach-pits, along with seeds of
other fruits, to be planted by the colonists.[130] Twelve years later
George Fenwick, Saybrook, Connecticut, writes to Governor Winthrop that
he is "prettie well storred with chirrie & peach trees."[131] Justice
Paul Dudley,[132] who seems to have been the leading horticulturist
in Massachusetts in his time, writes in 1726: "Our Peaches do rather
excel those of _England_, and then we have not the Trouble or Expence
of Walls for them; for our Peach Trees are all Standards, and I
have had in my own Garden seven or eight Hundred fine Peaches of the
Rare-ripes, growing at a Time on one Tree." From another statement made
by Justice Dudley,[133] we learn that peaches were still being grown
from the stone and may assume that budding was not known or so careful
a horticulturist as our author would have mentioned it. He says: "Our
Peach Trees are large and fruitful, and bear commonly in three Years
from the Stone. I have one in my Garden of twelve Years Growth, that
measures two Foot and an Inch in Girt a Yard from the Ground, which,
two Years ago, bore me near a Bushel of fine Peaches."


SEEDLINGS GIVE WAY TO BUDDED TREES

About the close of the Eighteenth Century the planting of pits for
permanent trees began to give way to budding. It does not appear
who began budding peaches on this side of the Atlantic but the
desirability of budded stock was discussed as early as 1736, for in
that year we find the English botanist, Peter Collinson, urging his
American colleague, John Bartram, to "graft Plums and Nectarines on
Peach stocks."[134] The matter had evidently been under consideration
before for Collinson tells Bartram "Pray try; I have great opinion of
its succeeding."[135] Bartram is hard to convince and ten years later
Collinson is still urging him to bud, for, in a letter of April 26,
1746, he writes, rather impatiently, "Though thou canst not see, yet I
have told thee what inoculating a Peach stock may do."[136]

Probably the Princes, pioneer nurserymen in America, in their nursery
at Flushing, Long Island, first began to bud the peach, for in their
catalog of 1771 they offer 29 sorts though most of these appear to be
types rather than varieties. Twenty years later they list 35 varieties
with the statement that all "are inoculated." John Kenrick,[137]
father of William Kenrick,[138] the pomological author, who for
years was Prince's chief competitor, his nurseries being located at
Newton, Massachusetts, began business in 1790 by planting a quantity
of peach-stones the trees from which he did not bud. Four years later,
we are told, he learned to bud and greatly extended his assortment of
varieties, making a specialty of budded peach-trees.[139]

Until the middle of the next century, peaches were nevertheless
commonly grown from the pits. It is probable that never before nor
since, the world over, have seedling peaches been raised on so
extended a scale as in America during the half-century following the
Revolutionary war. The country between the Atlantic seaboard and the
Mississippi was being rapidly settled and on nearly every farm from the
Great Lakes to the Gulf, barring a few in the northernmost parts of
this great area, peaches were planted. They furnished food not only for
the pioneers but were used in fattening pigs and in the earlier part of
the period, at any rate, were, with apples, the chief supply of ardent
spirits which every farmer then kept on hand for daily use. There were
millions of peach-trees in America before 1825 but until that time
there were but few named varieties. Then the art of budding began to
spread; nurseries sprang up; this vast collection of peaches was
passed through the sieve of selection; local varieties quickly acquired
fame; and, as means of communication developed, the new varieties began
to be disseminated, until, in 1850, American nurseries were selling
over 400 varieties, a number which at the close of the century had
increased to over 1000.


THE CARE OF THE PEACH IN COLONIAL TIMES

Peach-growers, in the period under consideration, gave their trees
much the same care as is given in the present time except that
they did not spray. Pests were fewer and yet some were especially
troublesome, notably the peach-borer, the remedies for which were
as numerous as today. Curculio, then as now, almost prohibited the
culture of nectarines. A rot, the brown-rot, without doubt, did much
damage. Peach-yellows, as yet, was not the scourge it now is but,
as we shall see, was well in evidence. There were faddists in those
days as in these. Thomas Coulter of Bedford County, Pennsylvania, was
one of the original "sod-mulchers"--at least year in and year out he
inveighed against cultivation. He managed to get himself in all of
the publications of the times for a period of a half-century. We find
his method discussed in Volume V of the Transactions of the American
Philosophical Society, in the _Domestic Encyclopaedia_[140] in 1803
and, as late as 1821, a full account was published in the _American
Farmer_.[141] We quote the article in full, as it came out in the three
publications named, as a record of the times and because it contains a
number of novel ideas some of which may commend themselves to modern
orchardists of the sod-mulch school who want a cheap and easy way of
growing peaches.

"Transplant your peach-trees, as young as possible, where you mean
them to stand; if, in the kernel, so much the better ... because, in
that case, there will be no check of growth, which always injures
peach-trees. Plant peach-trees 16 feet apart, both ways, except you
would wish to take your waggon through the orchard to carry the
peaches away; in that case, give 24 feet distance to every fifth row,
one way, after transplanting. You may plough and harrow amongst your
peach-trees, for two years, paying no regard to wounding or tearing
them, so that you do not take them up by the roots. In the month of
March, or April, in the third year after transplanting, _cut them all
off by the ground_; plough and harrow amongst them as before, taking
special care not to wound or tear them in the smallest degree, letting
all the sprouts or scions grow that will grow; cut none away, supposing
six or more should come from the old stump; the young scions will grow
up to bearing trees on account of the roots being strong. Let no kind
of beasts into peach-orchards, _hogs excepted_, for fear of wounding
the trees; as the least wound will greatly injure the tree, by draining
away that substance which is the life thereof; although the tree may
live many years, the produce is not so great, neither is the fruit so
good.

After the old stock is cut away, the third year after transplanting,
the sprouts or scions will grow up, all round the old stump, from four
to six in number; no more will come to maturity, than the old stump
can support and nourish; the remainder will die before ever they bear
fruit. These may be cut away, taking care not to wound any part of any
stock, or the bark. The sprouts growing all round the old stump, when
loaded with fruit will bend and rest on the ground in every direction,
without injuring any of them, for many years, all of them being rooted
in the ground, as tho' they had been planted. The stocks will remain
tough, and the bark smooth for 2 years and upwards; if any of the
sprouts or trees from the old stump should happen to split off, or die,
cut them away, they will be supplied from the ground, by young trees,
so that you will have trees from the same stump for 100 years, as I
believe. I now have trees, 36, 20, 10, 5 and down to one year old, all
from the same stump.

The young trees coming up, after any of the old trees split off or
die, and are cut away, will bear fruit the second year; but this fruit
will not ripen so easily as the fruit on the old trees from the same
stem. Three years after the trees are cut off by the ground, they will
be sufficiently large and bushy, to shade the ground so as to prevent
grass of any kind from matting or binding the surface, so as to injure
the trees; therefore; ploughing is useless, as well as injurious;
useless, because nothing can be raised in the orchard, by reason the
trees will shade all the ground, or nearly so; injurious, because
either the roots, stocks or branches will be wounded: neither is it
necessary ever to manure peach-trees, as manured trees will always
produce less and worse fruit, than trees that are not manured; although
by manuring your peach-trees, they will grow larger, and look greener
and thicker in the boughs, and cause a thicker shade, yet on them will
grow very little fruit, and that little will be of a very bad kind
generally looking as green as the leaves, even when ripe, and later
than those that never have been manured."

None of the varieties that we now grow was then cultivated. Taking the
sorts described in 1800 we find that four were red-fleshed; eight,
yellow-fleshed; thirty-four, white-fleshed; eighteen, freestones;
nineteen, clingstones, and twelve nectarines. There were no flat, or
Peento, peaches but a sort known as Venus's Nipple was seemingly a
typical beaked peach.

In 1800, Baltimore was the best market for peaches in America and
was near the Chesapeake peach-belt. We are fortunate in having a
description of peach-growing around Baltimore at about that time.
Richard Parkinson, an English farmer and agricultural writer, came to
America to rent one of George Washington's farms in 1798. The two could
not agree and Parkinson rented a farm near Baltimore on which was a
peach-orchard. He published an account of his experiences in two very
readable volumes and from this work we quote in part the story of his
peach-orchard. Perhaps allowances should be made, for Parkinson seems
to have been soured by failure and some of his expressions are such
as might be expected from an opinionated Englishman undergoing new
experiences in America just after the Revolution. Parkinson says:[142]

"It would astonish a stranger to see the quantity of fruit in these
parts, which makes the country to look beautiful twice a-year, when the
trees are in blossom, and when the fruit is on the trees ripe. But the
fruit is chiefly for the use of hogs and can be applied to no better
purpose.

On my farm at Orange-Hill, only three miles from Baltimore, the last
year I was there, I sold all my peaches to two men at four pence per
peck, and let them have a cart and a horse to take them into the city
to sell, knowing I had only made four pence per peck on the average
the year before, and gathered them myself. These men agreed to pick
them, and feed the horse in town at their expence. It was the opinion
of every one that they had got a great bargain, and many others wished
they had had it. They picked about one-half of them, and carried
them to Baltimore: but, alas! they gave up the business, saying they
could not make wages, although they at first had said that they would
certainly take every peach, intending, if the market should not suit,
to carry them to the stills, &c. I was in hopes all this exertion would
make this bargain successful, as four pence per peck would pay much
better than to give them to hogs, as I have no knowledge of what number
a hog will eat. Seeing this scheme frustrated, and thinking it a sin
and a shame to see such a number of fine peaches rot on the ground, I
mounted my horse and rode to the stills, as there were many small ones
within three or four miles of me in the country. They have been erected
for this use; but many of them are never used after the first year;
and I am of the opinion that they will not pay expences. The men at
the stills were civil enough; they offered to lend me the still, and
let me find a man to work it, &c. or they would work it for me; but,
from every information I could obtain, I found that my peaches would
not more than pay the carriage to the stills and hardly that; and after
selling them to the owners of the stills, they would not give me so
much for my fruit, as would pay me for my trouble; nor will peaches pay
the farmer, to be given to the hogs, if they be not so situated that
the hogs can run where they are; and that happened not to be my case.

As a striking instance of the little profit of stills, Mr. O'Donnel,
at Canton, had planted an orchard, of great extent, of red peaches,
for the purpose of making peach-brandy. The red peach is reckoned much
superior to any other for brandy. Although Mr. O'Donnel's orchard had
grown to bear in great perfection and he had a still and the other
necessary apparatus, the profit proved so small, that he suffered
the whole to go waste, and his pigs consumed the produce; and, in
the winter, rooted up all those fine peach trees, and planted the
ground with Indian corn, having previously manured the land with dung
from Baltimore for the purpose of an orchard. Now this gentleman had
some hundreds of acres of woodlands unimproved in this plantation;
therefore, the cause could not be for want of land.

My fine turnips, Indian corn, potatoes, &c. were in the field by the
orchard without any fence. Indeed hogs are not allowed to run at large
within five miles of Baltimore, by an act of assembly; and mine were
too valuable to risk such a misfortune; and especially as I was a great
hog-shooter myself, it would have been fine diversion for any of my
neighbours to have shot one of my fifty-dollar pigs. Seeing that these
plants would not succeed, all that remained was to fatten my own hogs
with them. I had but seven hogs; and they would have employed a man
with horse and cart half a day to feed them; for, after a short time,
they will only eat the best peaches, and refuse the others as a man
would. I found this plan would not answer; and the consequence was,
that, after every trial and exertion, they rotted on the ground. Now
my farm was so situated that the great road through the heart of the
country went through it, five or six stage-coaches, and great numbers
of other carriages of all kinds. In all probability some of my own
countrymen as merchants (for there begin to be many of these gentlemen
to settle their accounts with the American merchants, and I suppose
they will increase) seeing this waste committed, would, on returning
to England, relate their story in this way--That when at the tavern
at Baltimore on the same day, the fruit-people were asking eleven
pence apiece for peaches. An Englishman says to himself, 'What idle
fools those Americans are! and I think all the English, when they get
to America, are as bad: but, when I get there, I will set them the
example.' But when there, he finds himself much disappointed, and does
not know how it is that he does not increase in riches, while neither
himself nor his family enjoys any comfort. He at last finds out that
the Americans are not a set of fools as he once thought: and, as he
must have a name for them, perhaps he calls them rogues; which, if Lord
Chesterfield was right in his observation, pleases a man the best of
the two.

When I took this farm, I had not a doubt, that, by some extraordinary
exertion, I should be able to make something handsome from peaches,
and so near Baltimore. Before I took the farm, when I enquired how
peaches sold in the market, perhaps they would tell me eleven pence
apiece, and eleven pence a peck on the same day. That used to stagger
me very much: but it is so: and the man who offers you a fine Newington
peach for eleven pence or a five-penny bit, sells but few each day; and
lives, although very poorly, at a very great expence; consequently his
profit must be great on each article. The man who sells the peaches at
eleven pence each, will not grow rich by his business, any more than
the grower. Then we come to the calculation of my profit at four pence
per peck, which is the best and greatest price. Could the scheme be
put in execution, it will, generally speaking, require two men and one
horse and cart each day, to pick thirty pecks and carry them to market;
and thirty pecks are more than any white man can sell one day with
another. A black man is much better for this business than a white man;
although they are in general ignorant, they are impudent: thirty pecks
of peaches, at four pence per peck, is just ten shillings per day for
peaches; and the two men's wages are worth, at that season of the year,
one dollar per day each, and one pint of whiskey, which will be sixteen
shillings for the men: the cart and horse are worth one dollar and a
half per day; but you could not hire it for less than two dollars.
Now the expences on this business are one pound seven shillings and
three pence per day, and the produce is ten shillings. But as I sold
them, I made profit each day on thirty pecks of peaches two shillings
and nine pence: the reader may plainly see that there could not be
any thing done better. This shews in this part of the work where I am
on the Eastern Shore, one hundred miles and upwards from market, that
the reader will be convinced the cherries and peaches pay the best for
hogs."


ADAPTABILITY AND VARIABILITY IN THE PEACH

In the preceding pages our narrative has flitted from continent to
continent and country to country in a belt encircling the earth. Few
other fruits are found under such varied conditions and over such
extended areas. We have seen that peaches are found wild and cultivated
over much of Japan; as far north as Vladivostock in Korea; once a
wild inhabitant of some part of China it is now cultivated in nearly
every section of that vast empire where agriculture is an industry;
the trees are so abundant and so much at home in the orchards and
forests of the Turkestans and Persia as to have given rise to the
belief that they have always grown there. While not so common as in
Asia, yet peaches thrive in all of southern Europe and readily submit
to artificial culture in pots and on walls in northern European
latitudes. Coming to America with the first Spaniards, the peach found
such congenial surroundings that it spread rapidly, freely and widely,
leading botanists three centuries later to call it a native. In the
fruit-areas of the United States, after two centuries of cultivation,
though sometimes a luxury and the crop often a speculation, the peach
is so perennially plentiful that it is to be found, fresh, canned or
evaporated, in every home in the land and the species is represented in
American pomologies by over 1000 sorts which have originated in this
country.

However, in tracing the history of the peach from China to America,
we have not wholly shown the range of adaptability of this fruit.
The peach has become adapted to the clear skies, strong light, long
seasons and hot climate of northern Africa, where, under modified
cultural treatment, it is a common fruit in Egypt[143] and the other
states bordering on the Mediterranean. It thrives on the islands in the
Mediterranean and on those of the North Temperate zone almost to the
tropics in the Atlantic and the Pacific, as the Azores, Canaries, West
Indies and Hawaiian group. As long ago as 1649 the Azores were famous
for peaches and Colonel Norwood, author of _A Voyage to Virginia_,[144]
in a gustatory reminiscence tells us that they were of so good quality
that he "did not fail to visit and revisit them in the dead of night to
satisfy a ravenous appetite nature has too prodigally given me for that
species." In the sub-tropic climate of Guadeloupe Islands, French West
Indies, there is a peach peculiar to the region differing in shape,
flavor and in heat-resisting qualities from the common run of this
fruit.[145]

The Aryan race has taken the peach across the equator in the pathways
of discovery, conquest and civilization, and made it a favorite fruit
in the gardens and orchards of the South Temperate as well as in
those of the North Temperate zone. In the colonies of South Africa
the peach seems to be as common as any deciduous fruit, native sorts
being planted with those from Europe and America. Of the Transvaal
Yellow Peach, R. A. Davis, horticulturist of the colony, says:[146]
"Generally speaking, it is the fruit most commonly grown in the
Transvaal, and it may safely be said that where it will not grow no
other peach stands much chance of thriving. The writer has seen them
flourishing by the side of the railroad amongst granite boulders, the
result of a chance pit thrown from the window of a railway carriage. It
is also extensively grown as a hedge around homesteads, having been
planted after the primitive method of turning a furrow where the hedge
was wanted and simply dropping the seeds in after the plough. It is
commonly recognised that the peach hedge should duly appear and bear
fruit in two years from planting the seed. The writer has also seen
them growing by the side of water-furrows and dams, with the whole of
the roots on one side of the tree at least immersed in water."

The Spaniards, no doubt, planted the peach in parts of South America
soon after the discovery of the continent and it now runs wild on
both coasts. Thus, Darwin in his famous voyage found the islands at
the mouth of the Parana River, Argentina, "thickly clothed with peach
and orange trees carried there by the waters of the river."[147] Many
references to wild peaches on the Pacific Coast may be found, as
interesting as any being one from Bertero who says that on Robinson
Crusoe's island, Juan Fernandez,[148] "The peach is so abundant
that one can scarcely form an idea of the quantity of fruit that
it bears. They are in general of good quality despite the state of
wildness." According to Oakenfull,[149] in Brazil, "Of all the fruits
introduced from abroad, the peach has made itself more at home than
any." Wight[150] reports the peach and nectarine in Argentina, Chile,
Peru and Bolivia under cultivation and as escapes from cultivation
in seemingly all degrees of evolution. The peach-drying industry is
important in the province of Coquimbo, Chile. According to Lounsbury
the peach is the most common fruit-tree in Argentina. He says:[151]
"It grows almost everywhere most luxuriantly, bears heavily and as yet
no very serious insect or fungus pest for it has become widespread.
Solid blocks of thousands of trees are not uncommon about Buenos
Ayres. Most of the choice varieties of Europe and America have been
introduced." The culture of this fruit in South America falls short
of that in North America only because of the lack of advancement in
horticulture--the one continent is a century behind the other in this
field of agriculture.

In temperate Oceanica the peach plays as important a part in
horticulture as any other of the deciduous tree-fruits. In early days
in New Zealand, "vast groves of peaches existed, sometimes, as in the
Waikato, extending for miles, where magnificently grown trees cropped
without limit."[152] Both the peach and nectarine are grown in the
horticultural regions of the island. Wherever the fruits of temperate
climates are cultivated in Australia, there may the peach be found. If
one may judge from the attention given this fruit in the agricultural
literature of New Zealand and Australia, it holds the same high place
in the horticulture of these islands in the Pacific that it has in
Europe and America.

The types of peaches are almost as diverse as the regions in which the
fruit is an inhabitant. The 2181 varieties described in _The Peaches of
New York_ attest the variability of the species in America and Europe,
many of our sorts having come from the Old World. This great number of
kinds can be distinguished by reason of differences in skin, flesh,
flavor, aroma, stone and season, the attributes of which have been
mentioned several times in foregoing paragraphs. The structure of leaf
and tree offers as many more taxonomic characters. It is interesting to
note the extreme forms in fruit and tree the peach has taken on in its
centuries of world-wide wanderings.

Round, flat, beaked, free or clingstone peaches with smooth or downy
skins and red, yellow or white flesh, sweet, sour or bitter, in all
combinations, and each often modified by soil and climate, are known
to American growers of this fruit. But there are many peaches with
less well-known characters. Thus, a peach in China bears fruits as
heavy as one pound apiece with extraordinary keeping and shipping
qualities;[153] another Chinese peach of the Honey type has a tree
with a maximum height of only seven or eight feet;[154] growing in
the same locality, Poliping, China, is a variety with extraordinarily
long leaves;[155] the _Paak wat to_ peach from China is a white-stoned
sort;[156] a variety in the French West Indies has fruits that peel
easily and withstand a continuous temperature in ripening season of
76 to 90 degrees;[157] from Kashgar comes a peach that will keep for
several months;[158] in Chinese Turkestan there is a nectarine "said
to keep for several weeks after fully ripe;"[159] even more remarkable
is the Feitcheng peach which ripens in late September and can be kept,
if wrapped in paper, until February;[160] as remarkable as any is the
Transvaal Yellow of South Africa which we have seen in a foregoing
paragraph grows "amongst granite boulders," "as a hedge around
homesteads" and "beside water furrows and dams, the roots of one side
of the tree immersed in water;" the Fragrant Peach and the Firm Peach
from China are not yet known in America;[161] another Chinese peach is
a dwarf, "grown in pots indoors, which fruits at a height of fifteen
inches and bears peaches on the main trunk though the stem be scarcely
larger than a lead pencil."[162] Most of the examples named are from
China but others can be found in every distinct region in which peaches
have long been grown.

Every well-marked geographical region in which the peach is grown
comes, sooner or later, to have a type of varieties of its own; yet
the universal stamp of the peach--of cultivated _Prunus persica_--is
on them all. These facts imply two important things. First, the peach
is an exceedingly flexible fruit, capable of being moulded to fit many
conditions of environment; and, under cultivation, training, feeding
and culture in unlike regions, soils and climates, may still be greatly
improved and the improvements all intensified and augmented by crossing
and selecting. Second, the peach, a gift to the world from China, has
seemingly, in its centuries of cultivation by the Orientals, taken on
sufficient immutability to make it one of the most stable of species,
especially in its fruits. The many races and thousands of varieties
are all best put in one species; many varieties come true to seed;
and peaches from seed seldom "revert" to worthless forms as so many
seedling fruits habitually do. Cultivated plants, as all who work with
them know, differ widely in variability. Some, as corn, the cucurbits,
and grapes and plums with their many species, are so variable as to
be almost unmanageable in attempts to improve them; others, as the
cereals, are quite too immutable for the best work of the breeder.
The peach is neither a stone wall nor shifting sand in the matter of
variability.




CHAPTER II

BOTANICAL AND HORTICULTURAL CLASSIFICATIONS OF THE PEACH

PLACE OF THE PEACH IN THE GENUS PRUNUS


The genus Prunus is without peer in the number of distinct,
natural, esculent products it furnishes man. Here belong the
stone-fruits--peaches, plums, cherries, almonds and apricots,
represented by some forty edible species, which, through long
domestication, have been broken up into not less than 5000
orchard-varieties, of which at least 3000 are now under cultivation.
Of the two-score cultivated species of this genus, _Prunus persica_,
the common peach, is easily the most remarkable when judged either by
the senses which make foods palatable and pleasant or by the criteria
that establish the commercial worth of a product. As virtues which
give the peach leading place among stone-fruits, we may specify: Wider
distribution and consequently commoner cultivation and a greater
number of varieties; larger size, greater beauty, pleasanter and more
diversified taste, and more culinary uses than other stone-fruits; and
greater productiveness, more rapid growth and earlier fruiting of the
trees than most of the species of the genus. The place of the peach
in the genus Prunus is thus easily established from a horticultural
point of view, but it is a much more difficult matter to make clear
its botanical standing among the species with which it is considered
botanically related.

The botanical relations of the several stone-fruits to each other have
been set forth in the foregoing books of this series on plums and
cherries, but, for the convenience of those who may not have these
treatises, a summary of the relationships of the species of Prunus is
presented. Besides, greater emphasis on several differences between
the peach and its congeners is needed. In particular, since some
notable naturalists have held that the peach is a modified almond, the
differences between these two fruits must be more clearly set forth.

Nearly every botanist who has done much towards classifying plants has
grouped the stone-fruits according to a plan of his own and there are,
therefore, many classification schemes and consequently a most confused
nomenclature for this genus. Happily, the pitfalls in synonomy dug by
botanists need not worry horticulturists; for each of the stone-fruits
constitutes a distinct horticultural group. In tree or fruit of peach,
plum, cherry, apricot, or almond, who could mistake one for another?
For horticultural purposes we accept as best one of the oldest and yet
one of the most commonly used classifications which places in one genus
all of the stone-fruits. What are the lines of cleavage between the
several stone-fruits of common cultivation?

Stone-fruits fall naturally into two distinct groups. In the first the
leaves are rolled in the buds--convolute. The plums and the apricots
belong to this section. In the buds of the other group the leaves are
folded lengthwise along the midrib--conduplicate. To this section
belong almonds, peaches and cherries. The two sections seem to be
united in this matter of disposition of leaves in the bud, it should
be said in passing, by a few species of American plums which are
conduplicate in vernation. The second section is further subdivided
by very marked differences in the fruits. The fruits of the peach
and almond are larger than those of the cherry, less juicy,--in the
case of the almond almost dry,--hirsute (except in the nectarine),
and are borne without stems; and the blossoms usually appear long
before the opening of the leaves. Cherry-fruits are always juicy,
usually glabrous, and are borne on more or less distinct stems; and
the blossoms appear with the leaves. Botanists who put these fruits in
one genus usually redivide according to the characters given so that
the plum and apricot stand in one sub-genus (Euprunus), the almond and
peach in another (Amygdalus), and the cherry in a third (Cerasus).

Differentiating more closely, we find that it is not so easy to
distinguish between the peach and the almond. The likenesses are so
many and so apparent that it is not to be wondered that Knight, whose
theory we have discussed on a foregoing page, came to the conclusion
that the peach is a modified almond, or that Darwin, with his belief
that plants came sooner or later to express their environmental
conditions, should be inclined to believe that the peach is an
evolution from the almond. It is easy to imagine that countless ages
ago--how long since is but an invitation to argue--the two species
merged into one. Offspring of the parent-species once established in
distinct soil and climatic conditions--the peach in China, the almond
in southwestern Asia--differentiation began and in time each region was
represented by a species of its own. Such an occurrence is but one of
the commonplaces of evolution; but Knight, Lindley and Darwin thought
they saw evidence that the separation came after the almond, the
supposed parent-species, had been domesticated, the steps being from
fleshy almond to bad clingstone, to good clingstone, to freestone,
to nectarine. The arguments against such a descent have been given
elsewhere.

The chief differences between the two species are to be found in the
matured fruits though, at first thought, it might appear that these are
not greater than those found in widely separated varieties of either of
the two species. The fruits of the peach and the almond are, however,
much more widely separated than any of the varieties of either species,
inasmuch as the differences are several and have to do with parts not
usually affected by cultivation and not the subject of selection by the
cultivator. Thus, the fruit of the peach is a delectable esculent; that
of the almond inedible; the flesh of the peach, the mesocarp, is soft,
fleshy, juicy; that of the almond thin, tough and leathery; the pit
of the peach must be removed while that of the almond drops naturally
from the hard flesh which splits at maturity. The differences between
the pits of the two species are quite as marked as in the flesh of the
fruit. The pit of the peach is deeply sculptured, pitted, and of a
bone-like consistency; that of the almond is nearly smooth and in most
varieties is much thinner and of softer texture. The differences in the
kernels are such as could easily be brought about by selection, some
peach-kernels being sweet and edible and some almond-kernels being too
bitter to be palatable.

Coming to the tree-characters we find that there are several which
differ sufficiently to give each of the two fruits distinct specific
rank. The winter aspect of the two trees is wholly different. The
almond resembles a young apple tree in color of bark more than it
does the peach and has, too, a head much like that of a broad-topped,
much-branched apple. In foliage the distant aspect is much the same,
but examined closely there are several distinctions that hold in
comparing the two species. The leaves of the peach are more broadly
lanceolate than those of the almond, coarsely serrate or crenate while
the margins of almond-leaves are finely serrate. The glands on the
leaf-stalk or leaf of the peach are globose, reniform or mixed; on the
almond, the glands are globose. The flowers in the two species are
similar but the time of flowering is markedly different. The color of
the petals in both varies from pale pink to deep pink with occasional
pure white forms; the flowers of true almonds are always large while
those of the peach are about equally divided between large and small.
The almond, in New York, is out of bloom before flowers of the peach
appear, the difference in blooming-time being from one to three weeks.


TREE- AND FRUIT-CHARACTERS OF THE PEACH

Fruit-growers must largely depend on printed descriptions for knowledge
of varieties. A well-made description of tree or fruit, to one
mentally equipped to interpret it, is second only to having the real
objects at hand. But the difficulty is that few excepting professional
pomologists know the characters of even the common fruits and their
relative importance. Before taking up either botanical or horticultural
descriptions of peaches, then, it is necessary to direct attention to
the characters of the peach, differences in which distinguish species
and varieties. Be it remembered in this study of the characters of the
peach, however, that, as fields and woods offer better facilities for
the botanist than the herbarium, so the peach-orchard is a fitter place
to study the characters of the peach than a printed page.

The single species of the peach in which we are greatly interested
has a very characteristic tree, the variations in which are, however,
less well marked than those of the tree of any other of our common
fruits. The peach-tree is distinguished by its low, roundish and never
pyramidal head. Of its gross characters, size is most important in
distinguishing varieties, the several more or less distinct types in
the species usually being separable by size alone. In considering size,
proper allowance must, of course, always be made for environment. There
are no true dwarfs among the varieties of _Prunus persica_ cultivated
in America.

Habit of growth is nearly as important as size of tree in determining
varieties. Thus, a variety may be round-topped, upright-spreading or
drooping in habit; the head may be open or dense; the branches long or
short, stout or slender; the trunks may be short or long, straight or
crooked, much branched or little branched. These habits of growth serve
not only to distinguish sorts but often determine whether the tree is
sufficiently manageable to make a good orchard-plant.

Hardiness is an important character both in classifying and in
determining the orchard-value of a variety. All peaches are tender to
cold as compared with other tree-fruits of temperate climates but there
is sufficient difference in varieties to permit the designations hardy,
half-hardy and tender. In the classificatory scheme in most common use
in America, that of Onderdonk and Price, variation in hardiness is the
chief determinant of groups.

All peaches come in bearing so early and bear so regularly that
varietal differences in these characters scarcely count in classifying,
but productiveness varies very characteristically in different
varieties. Environment and care greatly influence fruitfulness yet,
notwithstanding, the quantity of fruit borne is often a means of
identifying a variety and, of course, must always be considered by the
cultivator and the breeder.

Resistance to disease and insects is a taxonomic and an economic
character of much importance. Thus there are great variations among
varieties in resistance to peach-yellows, brown-rot and leaf-curl, the
three commonest diseases of this fruit in New York, as there is also
in resistance to San Jose scale, the worst insect-pest of the peach in
this region and to the peach-borer, the commonest. These examples are
multiplied in the discussions of varieties, pains having been taken in
the peach-orchards at this Station to determine the relative resistance
of all varieties to the pests of this region.

But little attention need be paid to the old bark on peach-trees,
since in all varieties it is much the same and is unimportant to the
cultivator. The bark of all varieties varies in color on different
soils and is always of a lighter hue in cold than in warm regions, in
dry than in wet situations.

The branches and branchlets of varieties are very characteristic. The
length, thickness, direction, rigidity and the branching angle are all
stable characters of varieties, changing but little with differences
in soil and climate. The length of the internode is important as is
also color, smoothness, amount of pubescence, size and appearance
of the lenticels, and the presence of excrescences,--though all are
exceedingly variable.

Both leaf-buds and fruit-buds are used in separating groups of
peaches but are too nearly alike in the several groups to be of aid
in distinguishing the varieties of any group. Fruit-buds are borne
in pairs on the wood of the previous year with a leaf-bud separating
the members of the pair. The only characters of buds worth noting are
size, shape, color and the angle at which the buds stand out from the
branches.

After the fruits, the leaves offer the best means of determining
groups and varieties of peaches. Leaves are variable, it is true, but
usually within limits quite easily set, since the conditions causing
the variations are easily discovered. The most usual ones are extremes
in soil, moisture, light, heat and the age of the wood upon which the
leaves are borne. Much care has been taken to illustrate as accurately
as possible the leaves of the varieties given color-plates in this
text, size and form being reproduced exactly and color as nearly as
color-plate printing permits.

Leaf-size and leaf-form are the first characters of the foliage
to study in determining varieties. The former varies somewhat in
accordance with the conditions named in the foregoing paragraph but the
shape of the leaf changes but little. Fortunately for the student of
varieties, leaves differ most in relative length and breadth so that
the shape may be accurately indicated by figures which are used in
most of the descriptions in _The Peaches of New York_. Comparisons of
the bases and the apices of leaves of different varieties often show
distinguishing marks.

The color of leaves in varieties is very constant for both surfaces.
The color of the foliage gives an aspect to peaches whereby a variety
may often be distinguished in its summer dress at considerable
distance. Unfortunately, the colors of leaves in the color-plates in
this book cannot be relied upon to give much help in studying this
character. Autumnal tints are uniformly the same in peaches and not to
be relied upon in classifying varieties.

Several other characters of the leaves must be studied by the
systematic pomologist. The leaves of some varieties are thinner than
those of others, hence thickness becomes a distinguishing character.
Venation of leaves--size and arrangement of veins--is important.
Pubescence of leaves cuts quite a figure in the descriptions of many
fruits but in the peach is of minor importance because the leaves are
not very hairy and the quantity and character of the pubescence is
exceedingly variable. Some varieties have relatively few leaves--others
many. The leaves of some varieties fall early--others relatively late.

The margins of peach-leaves offer valuable evidence in determining
varieties. They may be serrate or crenate, doubly or singly divided,
glandular or glandless. Both serrations and glands are best studied
in the middle of the sides of leaves, those at the base or apex often
being crowded or wanting.

Petioles differ in length, thickness, rigidity, pubescence and
color, so that this organ is often a substantial help in identifying
varieties. Some say the color of the petiole is correlated with that
of the fruit, as it certainly is in such extreme sorts as Snowball and
Indian Cling, but it is doubtful whether this correlation goes further
than groups and even here does not always hold. Stipules offer no
distinguishing marks of importance.

Much use is made in classifying peaches of the presence or absence,
the size, color, shape, position and number of glands on the base of
the leaf or on the leaf-stalk. These glands may be either stalked or
sessile. The terms used in describing glands are easily understood and
need no definition unless it be a few words in regard to the shape.
Globose glands are small globes, reniform glands are kidney-shaped. In
determining the form of glands examinations must be made several times
in the season, the end of the summer offering the best opportunity and
even then care must be taken to secure old leaves. Glands are less
variable in adult trees than in trees not yet in bearing. Pomologists
for a hundred years have noted the fact that peaches with glandless
leaves are very susceptible to mildew. We find this to be the case on
the grounds of this Station. This correlation between glandlessness and
mildew may account for the fact that peaches with glandless leaves are
rapidly disappearing from American peach-lists. Wickson says it has
been found that peaches with glandless leaves resist leaf-curl.[163]

Gregory has made a careful study of the glands on peach-leaves.[164] We
publish here the most important facts he brings out.

"In a large number of cases the glands are stable and can be safely
used to aid in the identification of certain varieties. There are also
varieties in which the glands are exceptionally unstable, being on the
border line between the two types--reniform and globose--and having
what might be termed mixed glands. These mixed glands are of two kinds:
one in which the majority of the glands are reniform, with some globose
intermingled; the other in which the globose form predominates. It
would be quite possible, as Carriere (1867) suggests, to distinguish a
third type of glands--the mixed type.

It is important that leaves should be chosen from healthy branches
on bearing trees. It is also best to obtain a large number of leaves
or to examine the tree carefully before making the final selection of
leaves. Mature leaves are best because their glands are full-sized
and correctly shaped, while on young leaves the form of the glands is
usually obscure. This is particularly true of the reniform glands. On
the other hand, old, partly decayed, globose glands frequently have
much the appearance of reniform glands.

The structure of the glands shows that they are true glands, having an
upper layer of long, rectangular, secretory cells that produce a sweet
substance, the function of which is not apparent. After the glands
have ceased secreting they begin to decay, becoming brown on the upper
surface and slowly disappearing until almost nothing is left. This
decaying is a very complicated process, being preceded in every case by
a suberization and thickening of the cell walls.

The spines of the leaf are very similar to the glands in structure,
having the same upper layer of long cells, but with much more heavily
cutinized walls. A study of the transitional forms indicates that the
glands are merely modified leaf spines.

The leaves with reniform glands are apparently the highest type
and the glandless leaves the lowest, with the transition through
the globose type. In support of this view is the fact that whenever
typically glandless leaves become possessed of glands they are always
of the globose type.

The serrations of the glandless leaves are very strikingly different
from those on a leaf with glands. The former leaves are deeply and
doubly serrate, while the margins of the latter are always single and
crenate. Almost invariably, when glands develop on a normally glandless
leaf, the serrations are transformed to crenations, indicating that
there is a very close correlation between the glands and the crenations
on the edges of the leaves."

The French pomologists, Poiteau and Turpin,[165] seem to have first
made note of the glands in describing peaches, recording their
discovery by M. Desprez in the nurseries at the Luxembourg in 1810,
after which, for a half-century, French, English and German pomologists
regarded them as an infallible means of distinguishing varieties. But,
by the middle of the Nineteenth Century, classifiers began to give them
up because of their variability on leaves of trees of the same variety
or even on the same tree. Even Darwin made note of their insufficiency
in taxonomic work.[166] Now, no one familiar with any considerable
number of varieties of peaches would attach very great importance to
glands in a system of classification.

The flowers of peaches are very characteristic, helping to delineate
the groups in the several classificatory schemes of various pomologists
and being ample to identify not a few varieties. Peach-flowers differ
in time of appearance; in length of blooming-season; they may be large,
medium or small; pink, rose and rarely white; borne on pedicels of
varying length, thickness, color and pubescence; and both the floral
and reproductive organs have modifications of their several structures.
The size, color and shape of peach-flowers are well shown in the first
six color-plates. In some species of Prunus, as some of the plums,
the reproductive organs differ greatly in ability to perform their
functions, but the blossoms of edible peaches are seemingly always
self-fertile and there are less often the mal-formations found in the
reproductive organs of some plums.

A well-marked correlation[167] between the color in the inside of
the calyx-cup and the color of the flesh of the fruit is one of the
distinguishing features of peaches. Yellow-fleshed peaches develop
from blossoms in which the inside color of the calyx-cup is orange;
white-fleshed peaches develop from those in which the color is greenish
or greenish-yellow sometimes approaching a very light orange easily
distinguished from the dark orange of the other group. Since the
discovery of this correlation in the Station orchards by Mr. Charles
Tubergen it has been in yearly use and has enabled us to tell a year
or two in advance the flesh-color of seedling peaches, since the first
peach-blossoms seldom set fruit.

The fruits, however, furnish by far the best characters upon which
to found a classification of peaches. The simplest classification
of peaches begins by separating them into smooth-skinned and
pubescent sorts; each of these divisions is redivided into
clingstones and freestones; these four groups may then be separated
into yellow-fleshed, white-fleshed and red-fleshed peaches; still
further, most, not all, of the twelve groups made in the first three
divisions, separate into round, flat or beaked peaches. These are
the major characters of the fruits, little influenced by cultivation
or environment, after which there are many minor characters such as
size, shape, color, quality and season, all very responsive to changed
conditions, that help to describe definitely the many varieties of
_Prunus persica_. The most variable of the minor characters is shape,
all peaches tending to lose rotundity in southern climates and to
become oblong and beaked. The length and quantity of the pubescence on
peaches vary considerably in different soils--the warmer and lighter
the soil, the less pubescence. The skin adheres closely to the flesh in
some varieties; in others it is non-adherent.

The characters found in the stones of the many species of Prunus
are of great value in determining species but they help but little
in determining the horticultural varieties of any one species. The
stones of the peach do vary, however, very materially in size, shape,
grooves and ridges, pitting and in characteristics at base and apex.
The color-plates in this text illustrate these differences very well.
One may generalize and say that the stones of the freestones are more
deeply furrowed and that the sides are smoother than in the clingstones.

The characters of the peach are set forth on the opposite page by
reproducing a description as made at this Station in describing a
variety for _The Peaches of New York_. Such a description is, however,
but a skeleton, as dead as dry bones, unless a living picture of the
variety be made by filling out and covering the skeleton with ample
remarks made as the describer studies the plant in the field.

[Illustration: PEACH]

A more detailed discussion of the horticultural and botanical
characters of the peach logically follows here.


PRUNUS PERSICA Stokes.

   1. _P. Persica_ Stokes _Bot. Mat. Med._ =3=:100. 1812.
   2. _P. Persica_ var. _vulgaris_ Maximowicz _Mel. Biol._ =11=:668.
       1883.
   3. _P. Persica_ var. _necturina_ Maximowicz l. c. 669. (nectarine)
   4. _P. Persica_ var. _laevis_ Gray
   5. _P. Persica_ var. _nucipersica_ Dippel _Handb. Laub._ =3=:606.
       1893. (nectarine)
   6. _P. Persica_ var. _platycarpa_ Bailey _Cyc. Am. Hort._ 1456. 1901.
       (Flat Peach, Peento)
   7. _Amygdalus Persica_ Linnaeus _Sp. Pl._ Ed. =1=:472. 1753.
   8. _A. Persica_ var. _nucipersica_ Linnaeus l. c. 676.
       (nectarine)
   9. _A. nectarina_ Aiton _Hort. Kew_ Ed. =2=, =3=:194. 1811.
       (nectarine)
  10. _A. Nuci-persica_ Reichenbach _Fl. Germ. Exc._ 647. 1832.
       (nectarine)
  11. _A. laevis_ Dietrich _Syn. Pl._ =3=:42. 1852. (nectarine)
  12. _Persica vulgaris_ Miller _Gard. Dict._ Ed. =8=: No. 1. 1768.
  13. _P. nucipersica_ Borkhausen _Forstb. Beschrb._ 205. 1790.
       (nectarine)
  14. _P. laevis_ De Candolle _Fl. Fran._ =4=:487. 1805. (nectarine)
  15. _P. platycarpa_ Decaisne _Jard. Fr. Mus._ (Pechers) 42. 1872-75.
       (Flat Peach, Peento)

    Tree low, attaining a height of thirty feet, diffuse,
    open-headed, broad-topped, often without a central leader;
    trunk at maturity sometimes a foot in diameter; bark dark
    reddish-brown, in old trees rough and scaly; branches
    spreading, slender and sometimes drooping; twigs round, rather
    slender, glabrous, glossy green changing to shades of red, with
    numerous, large or small, conspicuous, usually raised lenticels.

    The leaves are alternate, simple, four to seven inches long,
    one to two inches wide, broad-lanceolate or more often
    oblong-lanceolate; upper surface dark green, smooth, dull or
    shining, some rugose along the midrib; lower surface paler,
    with little or no pubescence; apex long-tapering, base abrupt
    or acute; margins coarsely or finely serrate, or crenate,
    sometimes doubly toothed, teeth tipped with glands or sometimes
    glandless; petioles stout, from a quarter-inch to an inch long,
    grooved, glandless or more often with from one to eight globose
    or reniform glands, sometimes mixed, a part of which may be on
    the base of the leaf.

    The flowers develop from scaly buds on the wood of the
    previous season; flower-buds plump, conical or obtuse, free
    or appressed and usually appearing before the leaves; flowers
    of two distinct sizes, with some intermediates, the smaller
    size ranging under an inch in diameter, the larger, an inch
    and a half or more; the floral color ranges from an occasional
    pure white through shades of pink to deep red; fragrant and
    always pleasantly so; pedicels very short, sometimes seemingly
    wanting, glabrous, green; calyx-tube urn-shaped, usually smooth
    but sometimes pubescent without, green overlaid with red
    outside, greenish-yellow or dark orange within; calyx-lobes
    five in number, short, broad, glabrous within, pubescent
    without; petals ovate, five in number, rounded at the apex
    which is sometimes notched, tapering to a claw, sometimes
    notched at the base; stamens twenty to thirty, about one-half
    inch long, slender, distinct, usually colored; anthers yellow;
    ovary sessile, pubescent, one-celled, surmounted by a simple
    style which is terminated with a small stigma, the whole pistil
    equaling the stamens in length or longer.

    Fruit a fleshy drupe, sub-globular but much modified in shape
    and size under cultivation; suture usually distinct; cavity
    well marked, abrupt; apex with a mamelon or mucronate tip;
    color varying from greenish-white to orange-yellow, usually
    with a red cheek on the side exposed to the sun, sometimes
    covered with red; very pubescent except in the nectarine;
    skin adherent or free from the pulp; flesh greenish-white or
    yellowish, often stained with red at the pit, occasionally red,
    sweetish, acidulous, aromatic; stone free or clinging, elliptic
    or ovoid, sometimes flat, compressed, pointed; outer surfaces
    wrinkled and pitted, inner surfaces polished; ventral and
    dorsal sutures grooved or furrowed, sometimes winged; the seed
    almond-like, aromatic, bitter.

The characters given in the foregoing description are those of
the cultivated peach--the consummate fruit of _Prunus persica_.
The generic name, Prunus, is the ancient Latin name of the plum,
_Prunus domestica_, the type species. The specific name, _persica_,
commemorates the old belief that the peach came from Persia. The common
name, peach, in English, as in most European languages, is a derivative
from _persica_. Amygdalus, found several times in the synonomy, is
the Syrian name of the almond. The drupe-fruits are put in two, three
and sometimes four genera by various botanists but in the fruit-books
issued by this Station, following most botanists and pomologists, all
are put in a single genus, Prunus. Such lumping of several distinct
fruits into one genus has its disadvantages but the several fruits
cannot be reasonably separated because outliers closely connect
all. Hybridization between the cultivated stone-fruits adds to the
perplexities of classification.

_Prunus persica_ is variously divided by botanists and pomologists.
Quite commonly two botanical varieties of edible peaches are split
off, as shown in the synonomy, to separate the nectarine and the flat
peaches from the pubescent and globular peaches. But these sub-species,
originating over and over in the case of the nectarine as a bud or
seed-mutation and the flat peaches probably having originated as a
mutation, are not more distinct from the parent species than the
red-fleshed sorts, the snowball peaches, the Yellow Transvaals from
South Africa, the nippled peach, the cleft peach, the beaked peach, the
winter peaches of China, or the pot-grown dwarfs from China; in fact,
are not more different from other peaches than a clingstone is from a
freestone, a yellow flesh from a white flesh or a large-flowered from a
small-flowered sort. All constitute merely pomological groups, which,
more and more, are becoming interminably confused by hybridization.

[Illustration: ALTON (Large Flowered)]

[Illustration: BLOOD LEAF]

We name but one sub-species of _Prunus persica_, and that doubtful.
Mr. Frank N. Meyer of the United States Department of Agriculture has
recently introduced into the United States cuttings of a wild peach
from the province of Kansu, China, which he thinks has horticultural
value. The peach is _Prunus persica potanini_ Batalin (_Act. Hort.
Petrop._ =12=:164. 1892) which Mr. Meyer describes as follows:[168]

"A wild peach of the _davidiana_ type, but differing from it in
various points. Collected at the base of sheltered mountains at an
elevation of 4300 feet. A tall shrub or even small tree, up to 30 feet
in height, bark of stem or trunk dark reddish-brown and quite smooth
in the younger shoots; leaves like those of _Amygdalus davidiana_
but often broader in the middle and always less pointed. Fruits of
round-elongated form; skin covered with a heavy down, no edible flesh;
stones of elliptical shape, grooves longer than in _A. davidiana_,
shells very hard and thick, kernels elongated and relatively small.
Found growing at elevations from 4000 to 7000 feet, in side valleys
away from the Siku river; thrives especially well in sheltered and warm
mountain pockets. Of value especially as a stock for stone-fruits and
possibly able to stand even more dry heat than _A. davidiana_; also
recommended as an ornamental spring-flowering tree, especially for the
drier parts of the United States. Chinese name _Mao t'ao_, meaning
'hairy peach.'"

There are many ornamental forms of the peach-tree--sorts with single or
double flowers, white, pink or red in color, normal, red or variegated
foliage and standard or dwarf trees. The best-known named ornamental
peaches are _camelliaeflora_ with large, carmine flowers and its
sub-variety, _plena_, with double flowers; _versicolor_ with different
colored flowers on branches of the same tree; _atropurpurea_ with
brownish-red foliage; _foliis rubris_, similar or possibly the same as
the preceding, the color in both extending to the fruit; _magnifica_,
a semi-double with brilliant carmine-crimson flowers; _pyramidalis_, a
pyrimidal form; _pendula_, a weeping peach; and still others, of the
distinctness of which we cannot be certain, as _dianthi-alba-plena_,
_rubro-plena_, and _coccineo-plena_. With these ornamentals we are not
to be further concerned.

Of Japanese garden-forms the following varieties have been described:
_P. Persica_ var. _densa_ Makimo _Tokyo Bot. Mag._ =16=:178. 1902. _P.
persica_ var. _vulgaris_, f. _stellata_ Makimo l. c. =22=:119. 1908.
_P. Persica_ var. _vulgaris_, f. _praematura_ Makimo l. c. =22=:119.
1908.

Species are but convenient groups, their limits reflecting the
judgment of the species-maker. Were the authors of this text to
divide _Prunus persica_, the cleavage lines would be other than
those indicated in the foregoing paragraphs. _Prunus persica_ might
be divided, though there is no intention of furthering confusion
by the addition of new names, into two species. One would include
the white-fleshed, clingstone peaches, with large flowers and calyx
greenish-yellow inside; the other the yellow-fleshed, freestone
peaches, with small flowers and calyx-cups orange inside. Primitive
forms in China indicate such a division, the evolution of varieties
suggests it and the present disposition of the characters named as
separating these theoretical species attest the reasonableness of such
a separation. The primitive forms have been described and the descent
of varieties may be traced in the last two chapters, so that we need
only amplify the statement as to the present disposition of characters.

The characters in the two hypothetical species have been thoroughly
shuffled by hybridization but even if there is not correlation, as
there certainly is between color in calyx-cup and color of flesh,
it might be expected that those associated in the primitive plant,
the Adam of the race, would, despite the shuffling, still be most
often associated. What are the facts? In the Station orchard are
109 white-fleshed peaches; 40 per ct. of these are semi-cling or
clingstones leaving 60 per ct. nearly or quite free (there is
constant selection for freestones); 64 per ct. have large flowers;
all have calyx-cups yellowish-green inside. There are in this orchard
106 yellow-fleshed peaches; but 17 per ct. of these are cling or
semi-cling, the remainder being either quite free or nearly so; 73 per
ct. have small or medium-sized flowers; all have calyx-cups deeply
colored with orange inside.

Similarities in characters indicate so close a relationship between the
almond and the peach that one might well suspect many hybrids between
the two. Yet there appear to be but few clear cases of peach and almond
crosses. Knight[169] reports crossing the two, the doubtful results
of which led him to believe, as we have seen, that the peach is but
a modified almond. Several such crosses are indicated in botanical
literature[170] but whether all refer to one or several supposed
crosses there is no way of knowing--probably to one. The almond blooms
so much earlier than the peach that crosses could hardly occur in
nature. A hybrid between the two from which could be evolved a
late-blooming almond is a consummation to be wished.

[Illustration: CHINESE FREE (Medium Flowered)]

[Illustration: CROSBY (Small Flowered)]


THE NECTARINE

The nectarine is a hairless peach. The tree differs in no respect
from that of the peach and besides the absence of pubescence the only
other distinguishing marks between the fruits are smaller size, firmer
flesh, greater aroma and a distinct and richer flavor in nectarines.
Even the varieties of the two fruits correspond in characters. Thus,
there are clingstone and freestone sorts of each; both may have red,
yellow, or white flesh; the flowers of both may be large or small;
nectarine leaves, in one variety or another, show all the variations in
glands and serrations known to the peach; and the stones and kernels
are indistinguishable. There seem to be no records so far, however, of
flat or beaked nectarines, abnormalities each represented in several
varieties of peaches. The two fruits are adapted to the same soil and
climatic conditions and wherever the peach is grown, the world over,
the nectarine is found.

The established history of the nectarine goes back 2000 years and then
merges into that of the peach. Despite the fact that De Candolle[171]
"sought in vain for a proof that the nectarine existed in Italy in the
time of ancient Rome," we are convinced that Pliny's "duracinus" is
the nectarine. Matthiolus[172] in 1554 discusses Pliny's statements
concerning the kinds of peaches at length and concludes that the
author's "duracinus" is the peach. Dalechamp, in 1587, and J. Bauhin,
in 1650, both describe nectarines after which botanists and pomologists
invariably include this fruit. In the Sixteenth and Seventeenth
Centuries the nectarine was called "nucipersica" because it resembled
in smoothness and color of the outer skin as well as in size and shape,
the walnut. "Nectarine," the meaning of the word obvious, appears first
to have been used for this fruit, in the English language at least,
by Parkinson in 1629 who describes six varieties[173] and gives us
the information "they have been with us not many years." Gerarde,
the great English herbalist, 1597, does not mention them. We find the
nectarine first mentioned in America in 1722 by Robert Beverly in his
_History of Virginia_, who, after discussing the culture of peaches,
nectarines and apricots, says (pages 259, 260): "Peaches and nectarines
I believe to be spontaneous, somewhere or other on that continent, for
the Indians have, and ever had greater variety, and finer sorts of them
than the English."

The nectarine is one of the most interesting phenomena in horticulture.
It is the classical example of bud- and seed-variation, furnishing more
instances of mutation, and these more instructive, than have yet come
from any other fruit. Darwin, with the magnificent exhaustiveness which
characterized his method, brought together in _Animals and Plants under
Domestication_[174] a striking array of facts which leaves nothing
to be added as to the manner in which the peach and nectarine are
reciprocally reproduced the one from the other. He shows by numerous
examples: (1) That nectarines may spring from peach-stones and peaches
from nectarine-stones. (2) That peach-trees produce nectarines by
bud-variation and nectarine-trees likewise produce peaches, and that
either the nectarines or peaches so arising will come true to seed.
(3) That either peach or nectarine-trees may produce individual fruits
half-nectarine and half-peach. (4) A case is cited of a nectarine tree
bearing a half-and-half fruit and subsequently a true peach.

[Illustration: KENTUCKY (Nectarine)]

[Illustration: SUMMER SNOW (White Flowered)]

It must be noted that in all of the variations so far recorded there
are no intermediate forms between the two fruits. The peach produced
in these bud-variations is a peach and nothing but a peach; the
nectarine, a nectarine and nothing but a nectarine. Even in those
remarkable phenomena, of which several are recorded, in which the
fruits are divided into halves or quarters, one or more segments being
peach and one or more nectarine, there can be no mistake as to peach
and nectarine in pubescence, color or flavor. The nectarine from the
peach, thus becomes as clear-cut a case of discontinuous variation as
can be. If we accept the mutation theory of the origin of species--new
species arising suddenly at a single step--the nectarine is a species
in process of birth.

As yet we are entirely ignorant in regard to the conditions under which
the peach or the nectarine sports, the one producing the other. It is
wholly a natural phenomenon, for no one has been able to cause the
peach to produce the hairless form or the nectarine to bring forth a
downy fruit. The relations of the two fruits have furnished a fertile
field of inquiry for over a century but the problem is one of those
mysterious ones in which there are many facts that cannot be fitted
into a theory, so that our ignorance is as profound now as ever. There
are, however, several theories which, without going into full detail,
need to be stated.

The oldest notion is that the production of a nectarine on a peach-tree
is due to the direct action of pollen from some nearby nectarine-tree
on the ovary of the peach. This theory, wholly at variance with
present knowledge, is also discredited by the many instances in which
the sports occur when the two fruits are not growing in the same
neighborhood or even region. Thus, within ten years, several cases
of nectarines on peach-trees have occurred in this State where the
nectarine is scarcely known. Besides, crossing these fruits shows no
direct effect of pollen--as is true with nearly all other plants. Still
further, when a branch of a peach has borne a nectarine it usually goes
on year after year producing nectarines; and certainly impregnation of
a flower by foreign pollen could not so profoundly modify a branch.
There is so little foundation for this belief that it would not be
mentioned were it not that many fruit-growers still look to the action
of pollen as the explanation of the phenomenon.

Another, and a much more probable explanation, is that every sporting
peach or nectarine-tree is a more or less remote hybrid. There is a
growing belief that species are fixed and that crossing is the only
source of new seed- or bud-forms. Certainly all who have crossed
plants in any considerable numbers know that hybridity is at least one
cause, and a frequent one, of mutations. It is possible that sometime
in the past the peach and the nectarine were crossed, the offspring
showing no trace of the cross, and that now there is an occasional
disassociation of the characters brought together by such crossing.
There are several objections to this hypothesis. One is that two forms
sufficiently distinct to induce so striking a variation as a nectarine
from a peach, must have differed in tree as well as in fruit-characters
and that these differences would crop out just as smoothness of fruit
so frequently does. Another, and less potent objection, is that the
nectarine has never been found wild, that it never becomes naturalized,
that it is shorter-lived and less vigorous and behaves in general like
an artificial plant.

The third, and at present the most acceptable theory, is that we have
in the nectarine from the peach what De Vries calls a retrogressive
mutation. That is, an active character, in this case pubescence on
the fruit, becomes latent and appears to be lost--a type of mutation
frequent among cultivated plants. The nectarine, then, is a peach
with one character subtracted. When the nectarine yields a peach, the
character is restored. The one is a negative, the other a positive
step; one is retrogressive, the other progressive mutation. The
speculations as to what causes these mutations are as yet too vague to
be profitable. Probably we can never make use of the cause by which
mutations arise or of the conditions leading to them until we can
induce these strange variations. That they are due to disturbances in
the processes of cell-division is the theory now current--sufficiently
comprehensive and sufficiently vague to be a most convenient
explanation, at any rate.

Nectarines do not attain the perfection in New York reached west of
the Rocky Mountains. The trees, possibly, are a little less manageable
in the orchard, less vigorous and certainly more susceptible to pests.
Nectarines, in particular, suffer more than peaches from the scourge
of the crescent sign, curculio, a pest which finds all smooth-skinned
stone-fruits much to its taste and the nectarine more than others.
Then, too, whether fresh, canned or dried, fruit-buyers in America
prefer the peach. This discrimination in favor of the peach is largely
due to lack of knowledge of the nectarine, which, though different
from the commoner fruit, is equally delectable, fresh or preserved,
and certainly is a handsomer product preserved either by canning
or evaporating. Indeed, the dried nectarine, with its beautiful,
translucent, amber hue is the most attractive of all cured fruits.
The nectarine-industry, however, belongs to California, where all
conditions favor production, canning and curing.

[Illustration: KENTUCKY (Nectarine)]

[Illustration: NEWTON (Nectarine)]


PRUNUS DAVIDIANA (Carrière) Franchet

    _P. Davidiana_ Franchet _Nouv. Arch. Mus. Paris_ ser. 2,
    =V=:255 (_Pl. David._ =1=:103). 1883.

    _Persica Davidiana_ Carrière _Rev. Hort._ 74. 1872.

    _Prunus Persica_ var _Davidiana Maximowicz Bul. Acad. Sci. St.
    Petersbourg_ =29=:81; _Mel. Biol._ =11=:667. 1883.


    Tree attaining a height of twenty-five feet on the Station
    grounds, vigorous, upright, with slight spreading tendency,
    dense-topped, hardy in tree but not in flower-bud,
    unproductive; trunk stocky; branches thick, smooth,
    bronze-colored; branchlets slender--inclined to rebranch, long,
    with rather short internodes, ash-gray mingled toward the base
    with dark brown, glabrous, with inconspicuous, small, slightly
    raised lenticels.

    Leaves five and one-half inches long, one and one-eighth inches
    wide, curled downward, oval to obovate-lanceolate, thick; upper
    surface smooth, dull, dark green; lower surface grayish-green;
    margin coarsely serrate, tipped with reddish-brown glands;
    petiole five-eighths inch long, glandless or with one or two
    small, globose, reddish glands at the base of the leaf.

    Flower-buds tender, small, pointed, plump, appressed,
    brownish-red; flowers appear very early, a few days earlier
    than _Prunus tomentosa_, usually on short spurs; blossoms one
    and five-eighths inches across, whitish, tinged with pale
    pink near the margins, well distributed, usually singly;
    pedicels short, glabrous, green; calyx-tube reddish-green,
    orange-colored within, obconic, glabrous; calyx-lobes long,
    narrow, glabrous within and without; petals widely spaced,
    oval, shallowly dentate, tapering to long, white claws;
    filaments shorter than the petals; pistil red, heavily
    pubescent at the ovary, as long as the stamens.

    Fruit less than one inch in diameter, nearly spherical; cavity
    medium in width and depth; suture shallow, deeper toward the
    base; apex mucronate; color grayish-white turning yellow
    at maturity; pubescence downy; skin wrinkles and roughens
    before maturity and soon decays; flesh very thin, rather dry,
    tasteless and insipid, lacking almost entirely the flavor of
    the peach; not edible; stone separates from the pulp readily
    even before ripe, nearly spherical, plump, very blunt at base
    and apex; surfaces deeply pitted.

Father David's peach, _Prunus davidiana_, has been grown in Europe
since 1865 as an ornamental, seeds of it having been sent from China to
France in that year by Father David, a missionary traveler.[175] The
species is described as flowering in America in the Arnold Arboretum
as early as 1888,[176] seeds from which the trees grew having been sent
from China. Some ten or twelve years ago the species was distributed by
the United States Department of Agriculture, trees being received at
this Station in the spring of 1906. Meanwhile, agricultural explorers
representing this country in China have discovered that the species is
much used by the Chinese as a stock upon which to work other species of
Prunus. Whereupon, new distributions were made through seeds and plants
to nearly every fruit-growing state in the Union. We are, therefore,
now able to speak of the behavior of the Davidiana peach in America
with some degree of confidence as to its future as a stock for peaches.
But, first, a word as to its habitat and uses in China.

The several importations of seeds recorded by the United States
Department of Agriculture seem all to have been made from the province
of Chili in China and from the cities of Pekin and Tientsin in the
neighborhood of which the tree is commonly found wild. According to
Bretschneider,[177] the species was first discovered by Bunge near
Peking in 1831 who took it to be an almond. The same authority says
that Father David's seeds came from wild trees growing in the mountains
near Jehol, and that the species is much cultivated in the gardens of
Peking, there being two varieties, one with rose-colored and the other
with white flowers. At the time of its introduction into Europe, it
was considered, by some, the wild form of the cultivated peach. The
fruit of David's peach is not edible and peach-growers would have but
passing interest in the species as a very attractive ornamental were it
not for the fact that it is a common and most valuable stock, used for
centuries in China for several of the stone-fruits.

It is, then, with a view to its fitness as a stock that the Davidiana
peach must be discussed. Its characters in several respects indicate
that it may make an invaluable stock in America as it has long been in
China. For this purpose it seems possible to use it equally well for
several stone-fruits.

As it grows on the Station grounds the most experienced fruit-grower
cannot guess whether _Prunus davidiana_ is a peach, nectarine, almond,
apricot or plum. As we shall show later, too, it hybridizes with
several other species of its genus. Its similarities to all of these
stone-fruits give a clue to its value as a stock--it may be used
for all. It is the commonest stock for all of these fruits in parts of
China and is sometimes used for the cherry as well. It is reported by
the United States Department of Agriculture[178] to have been tried
in commercial plantings of peaches, plums, apricots and almonds in
California and Texas and for all is "unusually promising."

[Illustration: _PRUNUS DAVIDIANA_]

The trees are vigorous, healthy, hardy, and resistant to drouth.
Consorted with any stone-fruit it should impart these qualities in
some degree to the resulting tree. On the Station grounds, _Prunus
davidiana_ is growing with vigor and health despite the fact that in
the ten years of its existence here we have had all but record-breaking
extremes of cold, heat, drouth and rain--a decade long to be noted
for its extremes of weather. It seems to stand the heat of Texas, and
in Minnesota has withstood cold as low as forty degrees below zero, a
temperature which kills commercial varieties to the ground. It cannot
be fruited, however, in cold climates as its buds swell quickly with
rises of temperature and succumb to subsequent cold; neither will it
fruit in regions of late frost since it is one of the earliest species
in the genus Prunus to flower. In Texas and southern California,
according to the United States Department of Agriculture, it is proving
resistant to drouth and in the latter region to alkali as well. In very
dry and exposed places, it is said to lose its tree-characters and to
become a thrifty shrub.

Present nursery practices in growing peaches are unsatisfactory in
the extreme. More and more, pits from canneries are being planted
for stocks. The pits come from a great diversity of varieties and
the resulting seedlings are variable in vigor, health, size and
capacity to take the bud. Should no unsurmountable weaknesses appear
in _Prunus davidiana_ it is almost certain that its seedlings will
be more satisfactory as stocks for the peach than those from either
cannery pits or from pits grown on southern wild trees. The trees do
not fruit well in this climate, even when buds and flowers escape the
cold, possibly because of infertility of bloom, and for this reason,
the chief objection so far, some favorable region would have to be
discovered in which to grow the pits.

As one might suspect from its similarities to the several
stone-fruits, _Prunus davidiana_ gives promise of being a go-between
in hybridization. I. V. Mijurin, a noted Russian hybridist of Kozloo,
Russia, has crossed the Davidiana peach and the dwarf almond, _Prunus
nana_, with the idea of getting a hardy fruit for central Russia.
The resulting offspring, according to Mr. F. N. Meyer,[179] looks
in tree like the peach-parent but the fruit is more like that of the
almond-parent. The fruit of the hybrid is inedible but the plant is a
handsome ornamental. Mr. Mijurin states that while neither of the two
parents will hybridize with the common peach, this hybrid does. _Prunus
davidiana_, then, like the Sand Cherry of the Western Plains, may prove
to be a valuable go-between in hybridizing species of Prunus.

The fruit has no comestible value. It is small, less than an inch in
diameter, nearly round, very downy, yellow at maturity, with thin,
dry, tasteless flesh which parts readily from the stone even before
fully ripe. As if to complete its worthlessness as an edible product,
it begins to shrivel as maturity approaches and soon decays. In fruit,
even more than in tree, it is an intermediate between the peach and the
almond.

A word must be said as to the merits of _Prunus davidiana_ as an
ornamental. It is the first harbinger of spring in the great family
to which it belongs, bursting into a profusion of white or pinkish
flowers with the approach of warm weather even before forsythias are in
flower. Its thickly set, erect branchlets are wands of pinkish-white
two feet in length, making a handsome tree and furnishing beautiful
cut-flowers. If grown for its flowers, however, one must be content
in northern climates to have it in bloom only about one season out
of three but even so it repays culture. The Chinese cultivate dwarf
specimens, possibly a dwarf form, for winter-flowering and the plant,
it would seem, would readily lend itself to winter-forcing in American
floriculture. The tree, quite aside from its flowers, is handsome
at all times. A form with pure white flowers is a very desirable
ornamental.[180] On the Station grounds this white-flowering peach has
a fastigiate habit of growth and resembles somewhat a small Lombardy
poplar.


PRUNUS MIRA Koehne.

    _P. mira_ Koehne _Plant_. _Wilson._ Pt. 2, No. =4=:272. 1912.

    Tree thirty feet in height; trunk sixteen inches in diameter;
    branches very smooth, those of the current year's growth green,
    the older ones dark reddish-yellow; flowering-season short;
    stipules lacking or obscure; petioles five-sixteenths to
    ten-sixteenths of an inch long, with from two to four glands
    toward the apex, the glands broadly elliptical, disc-shaped;
    leaf at the base usually roundly lanceolate, two to four
    inches long, nine-sixteenths to one and one-sixteenth inches
    broad, gradually narrowing toward the apex; margin broadly
    crenulate-serrulate, tapering upward without division; teeth
    crowned with small, soot-colored, mucronate glands; upper
    surface clear green, glabrous; lower surface paler, villous
    along both sides of the lower ribs and the rest glabrous; veins
    on both sides twelve to sixteen, the veinlets somewhat raised
    on the under side.

    The pedicels of the single or twinned fruits two-sixteenths to
    three-sixteenths of an inch long, very thick, glabrous; drupes
    somewhat dry, sub-globose, one and one-eighth inches long,
    one inch in diameter, densely tomentose, edible; stone ovate,
    somewhat compressed, dimensions three-fourths by one-half by
    three-eighths inches; dorsal suture keeled, the ventral surface
    covered with narrow ridges, the ridges at the base of the keel
    nearly disappearing, the rest inconspicuous.

_Prunus mira_ is a new peach discovered in China by Mr. E. H. Wilson
of the Arnold Arboretum. The foregoing technical description is a
translation from the original description by Koehne. Mr. Wilson
describes for _The Peaches of New York_ the outstanding botanical and
horticultural characters of _Prunus mira_ as follows:

"_Prunus mira_ is a small bushy tree, growing about 6m. tall, with a
trunk about 1m. in girth and a crown some 8m. through. The branches
are relatively slender and the branchlets twiggy, and these, together
with the narrow, lance-shaped, long-pointed leaves, give the plant
a very distinct appearance. The fruit is roundish oval, about 4.5
cm. high and 3.5-4 cm. broad, downy on the outside, with white flesh
and a free stone. The flavor is the same as that of fruits from the
semi-wild plants of the Common Peach (_P. Persica_). The stone is 2 to
2.2 cm. high and 1.3-1.4 cm. broad, and in shape is flattened ovoid and
pointed. The flowers are unknown to me.

This plant grows wild on rather barren mountain slopes at about
3000m. altitude north of the town of Tachienlu on the China-Thibetan
borderland, where it was first detected by me on July 9, 1908, and from
whence I introduced it by means of seeds in the autumn of 1910. I saw
only a few trees, but have reason to believe that it is fairly common,
and also that it is thereabouts cultivated for its fruit. In the
Arnold Arboretum this species has proved no more hardy than the Common
Peach, though from the altitude at which it grows naturally it ought
to be the hardier plant. Our largest specimen is 2.5m. high and crown
3m. through. It starts into growth and leafs out much later than the
Common Peach, and is therefore much less liable to be affected by late
frosts. This is the one advantage so far evident in our experience with
this new Peach under cultivation. Undoubtedly it possesses important
horticultural possibilities, and especially should it be valuable
to the hybridist on account of its small and smooth stone. Indeed,
it requires no imagination to realize the advantage to be gained by
supplanting in our present day race of garden peaches for the large
and deeply furrowed stone one that is quite smooth and small."

_Prunus mira_ is now under cultivation at the Arnold Arboretum near
Boston, in the parks at Rochester, New York, on the grounds of this
Station and at Brookville, Florida, in charge of the United States
Department of Agriculture. No doubt within a few years we shall have
positive evidence of its horticultural value.


PUBESCENT-FRUITED SPECIES OF PRUNUS FROM THE UNITED STATES

Seven pubescent-fruited species of Prunus are found in the Southwestern
States. From reading the descriptions, it is hard to tell whether
these plants, unique in more than one respect, are most closely
related to peaches, plums, apricots or almonds. Professor S. C. Mason
of the United States Department of Agriculture, who has studied
these fruits,[181] thinks that some if not all of them may have
horticultural value, at least in the Southwest where fluctuations of
heat and cold are great and drought and alkalinity of soil must be
endured by plant-life. They deserve brief mention in _The Peaches of
New York_ because of the possibility that some of them can be used as
dwarfing-stocks for the peach and possibly that some may be hybridized
with cultivated peaches. The species, with brief notes taken for most
part from Mason, are as follows:

_Prunus texana_ Dietrich, the "wild peach" of Texas, is a plum-like
fruit from eastern Texas of which there are already several hybrids
with the wild plums of the region. _Prunus andersonii_ Gray is the
"wild almond" or "wild peach" of Nevada. The species is found in
western Nevada and eastern California in a region subject to severe
cold in winter and extreme drought and heat in summer. One cultivator
of this species suggests it as a good stock for the peach and the
almond and thinks it has possibilities for hybridization.[182] The
"desert apricot," _Prunus eriogyna_ Mason, comes from a very restricted
region in southern California. The characters of this species should
fit it to endure the environment on the desert slopes of mountains.
The "desert almond," _Prunus fasciculata_ Torrey, sometimes called
"wild peach" and "wild almond," ranges much farther south and east
than _Prunus andersonii_ in southern Nevada and southern California,
crossing into southwestern Utah and northwestern Arizona, and grows in
gravels and sands where its roots penetrate to great depth. _Prunus
minutiflora_ Engelman, the "Texas almond," is found in southwestern
Texas, a shrub which, like the former species and the one following, is
dioecious, a marked and unique peculiarity of these three species. The
"Mexican almond," _Prunus microphylla_ Hemsley, is found in the high
mountain region of Mexico. _Prunus havardii_ Wight, is known only in a
restricted region in western Texas. The last two species are so little
known that one cannot even surmise whether they may have horticultural
possibilities.


HORTICULTURAL CLASSIFICATIONS OF THE PEACH

The opening years of the Nineteenth Century mark the first attempts
at classifying peaches. By 1818 as many as three classificatory
schemes had been proposed, all being modifications of the same general
arrangement. July 7, 1818, John Robertson read a paper on classifying
peaches and nectarines before the Horticultural Society of London.
Later, this was printed in the Transactions of the Society[183]
together with a classification by M. Poiteau from the _Bon Jardinier_
and another by Count Lelieur from his _Pomone Francaise_. In January,
1824, George Lindley read before the same society a classification
which was but an extension of the older arrangements.[184]

Robertson separated peaches into true peaches and nectarines and
these in turn into Classes, Divisions and Sub-divisions. He founded
the two classes on the presence or absence of glands; for each of his
classes he made two divisions distinguished by the size and color
of the flowers; each of the four divisions is once redivided into a
sub-division in which the flesh parts from the stone and another in
which the flesh adheres to the stone. The two French writers use the
same characters but found their second division on the adherence or
non-adherence of the flesh to the stone; their third on the size of
the flower but making three partitions as to size; and their fourth
on the presence or absence of glands which they divide into globose
and reniform. Lindley created three classes dependent on the presence
or absence and the character of the glands and the character of the
serrations; three divisions of each class in accordance as to whether
the flowers are large, medium-sized or small; two sub-divisions of each
division to agree with the presence or absence of down; and for each
sub-division two sections, one for clingstones and one for melters.

This was the age of the classifier and other classifications, all
similar in plan, rapidly followed in England, France, Belgium and
Germany. No one at this time seems to have attempted a natural
classification of peaches.

Of the nine leading American pomological writers of the Nineteenth
Century, Coxe, Prince, Cole, Hooper, Elliott and Barry either do
not attempt to classify or make but one or two simple divisions.
Kenrick, 1832, follows Lindley in part but makes use of season in his
classification. Downing in his first edition, 1845, divides peaches
into freestones with pale flesh, freestones with deep yellow flesh and
clingstones. This simple arrangement by Downing is notable only because
it is the first time color of flesh is made use of as a distinguishing
mark, the Europeans probably not having done so because yellow-fleshed
varieties are rare in Europe whereas in America they are as common or
more so than white-fleshed sorts. Thomas, in 1846, did not classify
but in later editions divided peaches into two divisions, founded
on adherence of flesh to the stone; two classes for each division
in accordance with color of flesh; and three sections founded on
leaf-serrations and glands.

These Nineteenth Century classifications are artificial. That is, they
single out a few points of resemblance and difference and arrange
varieties in accordance with them, convenience and facility of use
being the controlling principles. They are natural to a degree,
however, because varieties agreeing in one point of structure commonly
agree in other characters. With the peach, more than in the artificial
classification of most other fruits, the characters are readily
distinguished and are stable. Yet most English pomologies now arrange
varieties of peaches alphabetically, while the American texts do the
same or use the pseudo-natural system of Onderdonk. His classification
we are about to discuss. The early artificial arrangements failed to
stand the test of time because classifiers could not agree upon any
one arrangement and added confusion by the multiplicity of them; and,
because the new varieties of the last half-century, coming in great
numbers, are so poorly described that the great majority of them could
not be classified from the data at hand.

In 1887 Gilbert Onderdonk,[185] a special agent of the United States
Department of Agriculture, published a natural classification of
peaches.[186] He put varieties of peaches into five groups which
he called races and to which he gave the names: Persian, Northern
Chinese, Spanish, Southern Chinese and Peento. He bounded peach-culture
in America on the north by the Great Lakes and on the south by the
Gulf and divided this great region into five zones to each of which
he assigned one of his races. Onderdonk studied peaches in Texas and
found there remarkable distinguishing characters; as, in adaptations
to southern climates, in length of the rest-period, in differences in
leafing, blooming and fruiting-time, and in the organs of the plants.
Professor R. H. Price, working with a large number of varieties at the
Texas Agricultural College, verified and greatly extended Onderdonk's
observations.[187] Eventually, Price became the pontifical authority
in this country on the classification of peaches and in numerous
articles and addresses set forth the Onderdonk grouping of varieties
so convincingly that it was adopted by practically all American
pomologists and at present is in use, to some degree at least, in
nearly all of our horticultural literature. It becomes necessary,
therefore, to scrutinize closely this natural classification of
Onderdonk and Price.

The end to be attained in a classification of peaches, as in
classifying natural objects of any kind, is to provide an epitome of
the knowledge of the fruits classified. Incidentally, a classification
helps in the identification of varieties of peaches. Does the Onderdonk
classification serve these purposes? We have not found that it does. In
most arduous attempts to arrange the sorts of peaches growing on the
Station grounds according to the Onderdonk plan, we have wholly failed.
Even the varieties named as types do not fit, as they grow in the
north, in the places provided for them by these southern classifiers.
Indeed, we have wasted so much time and patience in attempting to
group varieties according to Onderdonk and Price, and with so little
success, that the Onderdonk classification seems to us to be cursed
with the confusion of Babel. Since pomologists so generally accept
this classification, these words demand that it be shown wherein this
attempt at a natural arrangement of varieties fails.

In the first place the basis of Onderdonk's classification, as
the names suggest, is regional variation. Each race stands for a
region, the Peento included--for the name is very obviously Chinese.
Incompleteness, then, is the first fault of this system for there are
other regions in which races of peaches just as distinct as those
named have developed: as, for examples, the Bokhara represents a
hardy "Russian race;" Yellow Transvaal belongs to the very peculiar
"South African race;" in the rich alluvial lands of Egypt, the
"Egyptian race" has developed; still another regional race is found
in the evergreen peach of the West Indies. We have no doubt that
distinct races of peaches may have originated or will arise in the
Canary Islands, Hawaii, New Zealand, Argentina, Chili and Mexico, to
mention only countries spoken of in the foregoing pages. The Onderdonk
classification can, of course, be extended to take in these new races,
most of which are now represented in America, but eventually such a
classification would become too cumbersome for use. It must not be
overlooked that the Onderdonk classification should be doubled to apply
to the nectarine, the other division of _Prunus persica_, which the
present classification wholly ignores.

If the variations are stable, and all regions represented, the
likenesses and differences brought about by regional environment may
well be used by classifiers. But in the Onderdonk classification
unstable variations due to climate are too largely used; as,
differences in the succession of life-events, in the rest-period, in
the capacity to endure heat and drought, and in minor modifications
of organs, as color of foliage and shape of fruit. All of these are
variations that fluctuate with even slight changes in the climate. We
have said that this classification, though constantly referred to by
northern fruit-growers, is not satisfactory in New York. Professor
Price, too, found as he went northward that his classificatory scheme
was less dependable. He says:[188] "Some of the distinctions made in
this classification cannot be noticed with decisive clearness a few
hundred miles farther north." A further objection to this regional
classification of Onderdonk is that, in the numerous distinct
peach-regions of America, new regional variations are arising which
make it impossible to classify in accordance with characters that
appeared before the peach came to America.

These "races" of Onderdonk and Price, then, by leaving out the
peach-floras of many regions, are too exclusive, but it is no less true
that they are too inclusive. Thus, the many varieties of the historic
peach of western countries are put by the Onderdonk classification
in the Persian race. So considered, this Persian race contains types
quite as widely separated from each other as are the five "races" of
the Onderdonk classification. In one great group are collected early,
late, white-fleshed, yellow-fleshed, red-fleshed, globular, oblong,
beaked, hardy and tender, vigorous and dwarfish peaches. Persian
peaches run the whole gamut of peach-characters, the flatness of the
Peento possibly excepted, and from the several hundred sorts a score of
"races" might be made. These peaches are noted by Price and Onderdonk
as requiring a long period of rest and as succeeding only in northern
climates. Yet to this group belong the peaches of France, Spain and
Italy; those of the warm parts of Africa, South America and Oceanica;
and most of the varieties that thrive at the most northern limits of
peach-growing in Europe and America.

The Onderdonk classification, in assigning zones to each of its five
races, misleads peach-growers as to the hardiness of varieties. It
makes the Peento and honey-flavored peaches much more tender in tree
than they are. Varieties of both groups grow as far north as this
Station and Waugh reports that one of the Peento varieties "was
discovered growing thriftily and fruiting nicely on the grounds of the
Massachusetts Agricultural College, Amherst, Massachusetts."[189] Of
the score of descendants of the Honey, several are fruiting well on our
grounds, four being illustrated and described in _The Peaches of New
York_. If there were a demand for honey-flavored peaches, climate would
not prevent their culture in New York.

The name used for the Peento group, if it be worth while keeping these
peaches in a group, is inapt. It gives the impression that all, like
Peento, are flat peaches--in fact Price several times so publishes
them--whereas of the twenty-three sorts described by Hume,[190] though
nearly all are seedlings of Peento, only Peento is flat. We must look
upon the Peento as a peach-monster similar to the cleft peach, _Emperor
of Russia_, the nippled peach, _Teton de Venus_, the _Perseque_ with
its teat-like protuberances, or the more familiar snow-white and
blood-red varieties.

We are not able to see where the Peento group leaves off and the
Honey group begins in the Onderdonk classification, though, since
varieties of the Peentos have not fruited at Geneva and the several
Honey-flavored peaches, though both thrifty in tree and fruitful, are
possibly not typical, we ought not to be too critical. As we read the
descriptions made by others, however, we are struck by the fact that
there are more similarities than differences in the two groups and that
the differences are rapidly disappearing through hybridization.

But the obstacle which most effectually blocks the use of Onderdonk's
classification in the systematic arrangement of peaches is the brood
of hybrid seedling peaches annually brought forth by fruit-growers.
No doubt the classification is workable, to a degree, with the
type-varieties and a few carefully selected progeny but after the
practical peach-grower, with a devil-may-care attitude toward
classification, crosses and recrosses the types, the several races
become hopelessly interlocked. The characters chiefly used by
Onderdonk, as has been said, are fluctuating variations and these do
not descend according to Mendelian laws. And so the great out-pouring
of varieties during the past quarter-century has literally swamped
a classification which served only fairly well when it included but
the pioneer varieties. In the trituration of the thousand and more
varieties of peaches now going on, the Onderdonk classification will be
less and less useful.

In dismissing the Onderdonk scheme as having but limited application
for classificatory purposes, acknowledgment is made that it serves
other purposes very well. It calls attention to the history of the
peach; it shows that racial strains of the peach are arising; it brings
out valuable information in regard to hardiness and the rest-period of
peaches; it offers instances of modification of the peach by climate;
and it shows the capacity of the peach to vary. For thus illuminating
the natural history of the peach, more especially the climatology of
the peach, pomology is much indebted to Onderdonk and Price.

_A key to varieties of peaches._--A natural classification of peaches
to show the relationships of varieties is seemingly impossible. The
deluge of new varieties, which growers continue with cheerful optimism
to pour out, overwhelms the classifier with difficulties. About the
best that can be done is to arrange varieties, for convenience in
identifying, according to some of the artificial systems of a century
ago when the cult of the classifier was at its height. These were
really synoptical keys rather than biological classifications. If such
a key is to be used very generally by fruit-growers, only characters of
the fruit are admissible, thereby attaining necessary simplicity and
providing that all data can be had at one examination.

The first division of a synoptical key would of course be founded on
the absence or presence of pubescence on the skin; these two great
divisions would then be separated into freestones and clingstones;
these, in turn, divided in accordance to color of flesh--white, yellow,
red; the Peento and honey-flavored peaches make necessary a division
in regard to shape--globular, flat, beaked; a further separation into
early, medium and late sorts could then be made. A great merit in this
extremely simple classification is that the language of the layman fits
it. As examples: Greensboro would follow the key from bottom to top--an
early, round, white-fleshed, freestone peach; or Salwey, a late, round,
yellow-fleshed, freestone peach. This key provides for seventy-two
groups, fifty-four for the peach and eighteen for the nectarine, the
latter having but the globular form. Other characters, of less general
application in the key than those so far used, as size, flavor,
adherence or non-adherence of the skin, suture, apex, and stone, could
be used to carry this classification still further.




CHAPTER III

COMMERCIAL PEACH-GROWING IN AMERICA


Commercial peach-growing began in America early in the Nineteenth
Century. About this time, it will be remembered, budded trees began to
take the place of seedlings. Named varieties appeared as a consequence
of budding and, as nurseries sprang up in the settled parts of the
country, varieties multiplied at a rapid rate. After the year 1800 we
read less about peaches as food for hogs and less about peach-products
for assuaging the thirst for strong drink. As cities and towns built
up, market demands increased and money-making began to quicken the
charms of peach-growing. With the coming of extensive plantings and
intensive culture in commercial orchards, new and menacing pests and
other problems began to appear at every turn. Before the middle of the
century, commercial peach-growing was in full swing in the Chesapeake
peach-belt and in its infancy in several westward regions. Stories
of great success now filled the papers, "peach kings" abounded, and,
with the return of good times following the Civil War, fruit-growers
indulged in a saturnalia of peach-tree planting. The rouge of
speculation made the industry doubly attractive. An account of the rise
of commercial peach-growing in America cannot help but be of interest
and, besides, it is only by the study of the past of the industry that
we can draw safe conclusions for the future.

Peach-growing on a commercial scale in the United States began in
what is known as the Peninsula, consisting, technically, of the
Eastern Shore of Maryland, Delaware and southern New Jersey but
horticulturally, because of similitude of soil, climate and products,
taking in a bit of Virginia, touching eastern Pennsylvania and running
up to Long Island. All of this region, including the southern reaches
of the Hudson, may be considered as one commercial territory. The peach
began its undisputed supremacy among fruits in the orchards of the
Peninsula as early as orchards were planted but, beginning with 1800,
the industry pushed ahead with leaps and bounds so that the figures at
times remind one of Alice in Wonderland when she drank from the magic
bottle and immediately grew to gigantic proportions.

In 1800 an orchard of 20,000 trees was set in Anne Arundel County,
Maryland, the product to be used in brandy-making.[191] The last
peach-grower to engage in the liquor business seems to have been
a certain Mr. Bayley in Accomack County, Virginia, the tip of the
Peninsula, who in 1814 planted 63,000 trees which six years later
yielded fifteen gallons of brandy per 100 trees, worth $2 per
gallon--not profitable unless the seed were sown in rows, as was
probably the case, and the seedlings permitted to crowd rather
closely.[192] One of the first large orchards planted in this region
to supply city peach-markets was that of a Mr. Cassidy who set an
orchard of 50,000 trees in Cecil County, Maryland, about 1830.[193] The
product of this orchard went to market in sailboats and large wagons.
The industry was not in full swing in this region until the fifties
when orchards were planted all along the water courses in Cecil, Kent
and Queen Anne counties, making a continuous forest of peach-trees two
miles back from the rivers.[194]

The peach-industry in Delaware seems to have begun, according to Mr.
Charles Wright,[195] in 1832 at Delaware City, when a twenty-acre
orchard of budded trees was set by Messrs. Reeves and Ridgeway, which
by 1836 had increased to 110 acres. The receipts from this orchard
in a single season were as much as $16,000, the fruit bringing in
Philadelphia from $1.25 to $3 per three-peck basket. Other notable
orchards of these early times mentioned by Mr. Wright are those of
Major Philip Reybold and Sons who, beginning in 1835, by 1846 had
117,720 trees on 1090 acres near Delaware City from which 63,344
baskets of peaches were shipped in August, 1845; in Kent County, John
Reed began planting as early as 1829 and several years later had 10,000
trees of Red Cheek Melocotons. In 1848 the peach-crop in Delaware
was estimated at 5,000,000 baskets, chiefly from New Castle County.
Peach-yellows, first a serious pest around Philadelphia about 1800,
became epidemic in northern Delaware in 1842 and, little by little, the
center of the peach-industry shifted southward from Middletown in the
late sixties to Smyrna; a few years later it had reached Wyoming and in
the nineties it was as far south as Bridgeville.

It is interesting to follow the ups and downs of the peach-industry
in the Peninsula. Epidemics of yellows, a succession of cold winters,
over-production, transportation difficulties or expense, San Jose
scale, have all been factors powerful enough at various times to make
or mar the fortunes of those engaged in growing peaches. Indeed, in
following the history of this fruit on the Peninsula, one is forced
to declare that peach-growing is gambling pure and simple. Take, for
example, the building of the Delaware railroad. Peaches were scarcely
planted in the interior parts of the Peninsula, away from water-ways,
until the building of this road in the sixties and seventies, when
the yield increased so rapidly that 4,175,500 baskets were shipped by
rail in 1875, the total yield being 8,782,716 baskets[196]--fortunes
followed the completion of the railroad only to be lost in subsequent
over-production.

New Jersey, eastern Pennsylvania, and southeastern New York rather
slowly followed the lead of Delaware in commercial peach-growing.
New Jersey, according to census reports, reached her zenith in
peach-growing in 1899 when there were 4,413,568 peach-trees in the
State which produced 2,746,607 bushels of fruit giving her third rank
among the states of the Union in production. Ten years later the State
had dropped to fourteenth. The peach seems to have been neglected in
eastern Pennsylvania as a commercial crop, possibly because a good
start was never made on account of the early appearance of yellows. In
southeastern New York and on Long Island, peach-growers have usually
followed the fortunes of their neighbors in New Jersey who have ever
grown on a much larger scale.

To show how quickly the peach gives returns and how great the return
from the capital invested, the following figures, savoring a good deal
of American boastfulness of dollars and cents, are illustrative:[197]
"The peach farms in Upper Delaware and Maryland have returned to their
owners the most fabulous amounts for their investments far exceeding in
profit any other staple crop that has been raised in the Middle States,
and on a scale never before heard of in this or any other country. Some
of the orchards containing from 1000 to 1300 acres have netted their
owners from $20,000 to $30,000 annually. A peach orchard in New Castle
county, Delaware, of 400 acres, netted the owner in one crop, $38,000.
One in Kent county, Maryland, of some 600 acres, produced a crop paying
$31,000, and the same orchard in 1879 yielded $42,000. In 1873, the
Delaware Peach Growers' Association reported that there were sent
from the Delaware peninsula to the northern markets of Philadelphia
and New York 1,288,500 baskets of peaches, or 2577 car-loads by the
railroad. Adding the quantity shipped by steamers and sailing vessels,
and the amount canned, the actual quantity amounted, in the aggregate,
to 2,000,000 of baskets. In 1872, the whole district, comprising the
Eastern Shore of Maryland, marketed 3,500,000 baskets. The late Col.
Wilkins, on Chester river, Kent county, Maryland, had 1350 acres in
with peach trees, numbering 137,000, producing in bearing years from
$30,000 to $40,000 annually."

Commercial peach-growing in the South is of recent development--its
history is known to all pomologists of the present generation. It
began in the seventies, the impetus being given by the introduction of
a number of early, bright-colored, very showy peaches that could be
marketed in northern cities in May and June. It took years, however,
to develop means to send these peaches to market and it was not until
in the nineties that the perfection of refrigerator cars and rapid
transportation was such that the southern crop cut any figure in the
peach-markets. The introduction of the Elberta in the seventies may
be said to be another stone in the foundation of the peach-industry
in the South. After Georgia became a factor in the culture of this
fruit in America in the nineties, the State was followed in lesser
degree, by South Carolina, Alabama, Mississippi, Arkansas and Texas.
In most of these southern states the peach-orchard is so near the
cotton-plantation--often the two are interplanted--that the owners rob
Peter to pay Paul in the care of the two crops. But this is not always
the case, and at its best the southern peach-orchard is the consummate
flower of modern commercial peach-growing.

The peach-industry in Connecticut is a recent development, as in
the South. As late as 1880 the crop was negligible in the State; in
1889, 37,295 bushels were grown; 61,775 in 1899; and 417,918 bushels
in 1909. This, considering the smallness of the State and the very
uneven surface of much of it, is a rather remarkable development.
Winter-killing, which takes place about one winter out of four, is
the chief drawback but the high prices received from nearby markets
make the peach, despite the occasional off-year, a profitable crop.
Connecticut peaches are characterized by large size, bright color
and good quality. From Connecticut the industry has spread into
Massachusetts where all conditions are essentially the same.

Peach-growing in New York has never been spectacular. Along the lower
Hudson before the Civil War and again a decade after it there was a
thriving peach-industry such as there was in New Jersey and Delaware. A
peach-industry is first of all dependent on quick transportation--the
fruit must move. This meant in early days that there must be nearby
markets and water transportation--western New York had the latter
but not the former. Peaches, however, were early grown, in fact, as
we have seen, were cultivated by the Indians, in the lake regions
of western New York. In 1828 the Domestic Horticultural Society, the
third such organization in America, was organized in Geneva, having
for its field ten counties in western New York.[198] The Monroe County
Horticultural Society was organized in 1830,[199] and in 1831 the
_Genesee Farmer and Gardener's Journal_ came into existence. These
institutions bore fruit, more literally bore orchards, and a taste for
horticulture, which, together with the nurseries that by this time
were being established in the salubrious climate and excellent soil of
western New York, gave a perfection in fruit-growing long unrivalled in
America and now equalled only in California.

Of the history of commercial peach-growing in western New York, it
can only be said that there has been such an industry since 1800.
The product of the orchards of the first quarter-century went, for
most part, to the brandy-still, for the second quarter it was used at
home and for local markets and from then on, since 1850, or a little
before, the region has been well to the front in the peach-markets of
eastern United States. Changes in the commerce of the continent have
made great changes in the peach-industry in New York. In 1825 the
opening of the Erie Canal made western New York the granary of eastern
United States--wheat was more profitable than peaches. Twenty-five
years later millions of bushels of wheat from the plains, carried
through the Great Lakes and the Erie Canal to the sea, began to drive
wheat out of western New York and make the peach more profitable. This
is a fine illustration of the fact that transportation is often as
important a factor as soil or climate in the profitable production of
a crop. Until figures were taken by census enumerators, the history of
the peach-industry could be written only by giving innumerable items
taken at random from newspapers of the times. The present status of
peach-growing in this region is to be discussed in a future chapter.

Another large commercial peach-region is to be found along the shore
of Lake Erie in Ohio. The peach has been cultivated very generally in
Ohio since the first settlements there more than a century ago and the
industry assumed commercial importance in a dozen or more centers as
early, at least, as 1867, when the assessors' returns showed a total
crop for the State of 1,402,849 bushels.[200] But what is now known
as the peach-belt along the shores of Lake Erie is largely a growth
of comparatively recent times, much of the land now covered with
peach-orchards having been originally planted to vineyards. Possibly
the region was at its zenith in the nineties, the plantings here
contributing greatly to putting Ohio in third place at this time among
the states of the Union in the production of peaches.

Michigan furnishes an interesting chapter in the history of the
peach-industry. The industry was started in what is now the Michigan
peach-belt by an Indian trader who planted a pit in 1775 near St.
Joseph. From this tree sprang seedling orchards, one of which, near
Douglas at the mouth of the Kalamazoo River, numbered 300 trees. There
were no budded trees until 1834. A conjunction of several factors
now gave peach-growing a tremendous impetus in the State. Chicago,
growing with leaps and bounds, demanded peaches; the soil and climate
of western Michigan were found to be ideal for this fruit; between
the supply and demand was quick and cheap transportation by water.
Shipments began in 1834 to Chicago and, as this and other western
cities grew, peach-planting in Michigan progressed as probably never
before in any other part of the world. In the seventies peach-yellows
swept like a wave of fire over the southern portion of what is now
the belt, driving the industry northward until at Traverse City the
peach reached its highest northern limit in the eastern states. With
better control of the yellows, peach-orchards were again planted in the
southern parts of the belt and the industry continues to thrive, though
with the ups and downs incident to this fruit wherever grown.

Another large peach-growing area lies in southern Illinois extending
across the Mississippi into Missouri and Kansas. Westward, in Colorado,
Utah, California, Oregon and Washington, are the world's newest
peach-orchards, all of which have arisen to commercial importance
within recent times. In southern Illinois and Missouri, however, even
before the Civil War, peach-growing had assumed sufficient magnitude to
be called an industry. The present standing of these later peach-areas
may best be compared with that of the older regions by a tabulated
report from the United States Census Reports which is herewith printed.
In the fluctuating figures of this table one sees the exploitation of
the peach. What other tree-crop in the whole world could show more ups
and downs in the brief space of thirty years? No state holds first rank
two decades in succession; in fifteen states in 1910 there were more
trees not of bearing age than there were in bearing; there were more
peach-trees in the United States in 1900 than in 1910; the figures
most graphically attest the shifting of peach-regions; decreasing
numbers represent misfortunes--most often yellows, or San Jose scale,
a freeze, or overproduction; increasing numbers stand for a newly
discovered advantage. By these tokens we better realize the speculative
nature of peach-growing.


PEACH-PRODUCTION IN THE UNITED STATES, 1890-1910

  ======================================================================
                        | Number of trees of bearing age  | Trees not
                        |                                 | of bearing
       States           +----------+----------+-----------+    age,
                        | Eleventh |  Twelfth |Thirteenth |Thirteenth
                        |  Census, |  Census, |  Census,  |  Census,
                        |   1890   |   1900   |   1910    |   1910
  ----------------------+----------+----------+-----------+-------------
  New England:          |          |          |           |
    Maine               |     1,607|     9,592|     5,102 |     3,320
    New Hampshire       |    19,057|    48,819|    57,571 |    35,213
    Vermont             |     1,966|     4,993|     5,492 |     2,187
    Massachusetts       |    87,004|   301,405|   154,592 |   162,114
    Rhode Island        |    11,816|    48,063|    39,342 |    30,795
    Connecticut         |    88,655|   522,726|   461,711 |   338,608
  Middle Atlantic:      |          |          |           |
    New York            | 1,014,110| 2,522,729| 2,457,187 | 2,216,907
    New Jersey          | 4,413,568| 2,746,607| 1,216,476 | 1,363,632
    Pennsylvania        | 1,146,342| 3,521,930| 2,383,027 | 2,179,386
  East North Central:   |          |          |           |
    Ohio                | 1,882,191| 6,363,127| 3,133,368 | 2,092,300
    Indiana             |   953,980| 2,925,526| 2,130,298 | 1,145,479
    Illinois            |   783,910| 2,448,013| 2,860,120 |   739,358
    Michigan            | 1,919,104| 8,104,415| 2,907,170 | 2,991,090
    Wisconsin           |       387|     6,967|     4,163 |     4,148
  West North Central:   |          |          |           |
    Minnesota           |       334|     1,626|     1,571 |     3,837
    Iowa                |    82,238|   516,145| 1,090,749 |   283,308
    Missouri            | 1,999,474| 4,557,365| 6,588,034 | 1,404,429
    North Dakota        |   .....  |         2|        90 |       604
    South Dakota        |        78|     1,080|     1,815 |     5,259
    Nebraska            |   144,701| 1,055,959| 1,188,373 |   263,882
    Kansas              | 4,876,311| 5,098,064| 4,394,894 |   620,709
  South Atlantic:       |          |          |           |
    Delaware            | 4,521,623| 2,441,650| 1,177,402 |   212,117
    Maryland            | 6,113,287| 4,017,854| 1,497,724 |   805,063
    District of Columbia|     1,521|       149|       330 |         1
    Virginia            | 1,218,219| 1,939,113| 1,585,505 |   780,551
    West Virginia       |   450,440| 1,695,642| 1,424,582 | 1,441,188
    North Carolina      | 2,133,004| 2,773,788| 2,661,791 |   861,042
    South Carolina      |   711,138| 1,136,790| 1,336,142 |   349,790
    Georgia             | 2,787,546| 7,668,639|10,609,119 | 1,531,367
    Florida             |   235,936|   354,208|   290,850 |   156,782
  East South Central:   |          |          |           |
    Kentucky            | 1,205,866| 2,884,193| 2,245,402 | 1,110,744
    Tennessee           | 2,347,699| 2,749,203| 3,163,737 | 1,190,727
    Alabama             | 1,280,842| 2,690,151| 3,177,331 |   838,866
    Mississippi         |   878,569| 1,856,748| 1,726,298 |   724,895
  ----------------------+----------+----------+-----------+-------------

PEACH-PRODUCTION IN THE UNITED STATES 1890-1910--_Continued_

  ======================================================================
                        | Number of trees of bearing age  | Trees not
                        |                                 | of bearing
       States           +----------+----------+-----------+    age,
                        | Eleventh |  Twelfth |Thirteenth |Thirteenth
                        |  Census, |  Census, |  Census,  |  Census,
                        |   1890   |   1900   |   1910    |   1910
  ----------------------+----------+----------+-----------+-------------
  West South Central:   |          |          |           |
    Arkansas            | 2,769,052| 4,062,218| 6,859,962 | 2,884,927
    Louisiana           |   317,132|   758,877|   903,352 |   316,132
    Oklahoma            |       206| 5,848,808| 4,783,825 | 2,574,680
    Texas               | 4,486,901| 7,248,358| 9,737,827 | 2,958,813
  Mountain:             |          |          |           |
    Montana             |     .... |     1,670|       538 |     3,386
    Idaho               |    13,639|    79,757|    73,080 |   212,995
    Wyoming             |     .... |         9|        46 |       419
    Colorado            |     8,204|    31,998|   793,372 |   606,001
    New Mexico          |    23,081|   117,003|   136,191 |   184,466
    Arizona             |    24,954|    67,073|    51,415 |    32,562
    Utah                |    68,121|   409,665|   544,314 |   651,233
    Nevada              |     3,996|     9,136|     6,329 |     5,049
  Pacific:              |          |          |           |
    Washington          |    72,701|   226,636|   536,875 | 1,028,141
    Oregon              |   115,244|   281,716|   273,162 |   508,179
    California          | 2,669,843| 7,472,393| 7,829,011 | 4,409,562
                        +----------+----------+-----------+--------------
        Total           |53,885,597|99,916,598|94,506,657 | 42,266,243
  =======================================================================


NEW TYPES OF PEACHES

The capacity of species to split into types, using types in a broad
sense, is, we all agree, one of the greatest assets of cultivated
plants. Through diversity of types come adaptabilities to soils
and climates and variety in the crop, to mention but two of the
essentials of standard crop-plants. New types afford the material from
which greatest progress comes in fruit-growing. In common with all
fruit-growing, peach-growing has received impetus from time to time
from the introduction of new and distinct types. In the middle of the
Nineteenth Century, three previously unknown types of peaches, each
divisible into horticultural varieties, were brought to America. All
three have had important effects on the peach-industry in America.

_North China peaches._--Not very distinct from the Persian peaches at
the outset, its outliers running into some of the other groups as well,
"North China" is now but little more than a name for a conglomerate
lot of varieties grown everywhere in America except in the sub-tropic
parts of the Gulf States. The North China race includes varieties
characterized by fruits of large size, great beauty, tender skin
and flesh, good quality and vigorous trees which bear abundantly
and regularly. The group has received careful study at the Delaware
Experiment Station, an account of it by G. Harold Powell having been
published in the Thirteenth Annual Report from that Station in 1901.
Powell prefers to call the group Chinese Cling rather than North China.

The peaches put in the North China group are so nearly akin to those
in the Persian group that it is difficult to place varieties. All
agree, however, in taking the European Shanghai, the American Chinese
Cling, as the type-variety and, though it is probable that travelers
or missionaries brought pits of some of these peaches from northern
China a century or more ago, the known history of the group begins
with the variety just named as the type. It is a pleasure to give
Robert Fortune, the indefatigable collector of Chinese plants for the
London Horticultural Society, credit for introducing these peaches into
western countries. In 1844 Fortune collected a fine, large, delicious
peach near Shanghai and in the autumn forwarded pits and a plant in a
pot to London. The pits were sown and the seedlings produced fruit in
1852 and from among these a sort was selected and called Shanghai.[201]
Pits from this first collection were probably sent to France, for the
name appears in the early fifties in the pomological literature of this
country.

The first American reference to the Shanghai is found in 1851[202]
when fruits were exhibited at the Massachusetts Horticultural Society
in Boston by R. Choate with the statement "peach from a tree imported
from Shanghai." More definite are the facts of an importation made by
Charles Downing in 1850. Early in that year Downing received potted
peach-trees from the British consul at Shanghai under the names
"Chinese Cling" and "Shanghai," supposed to be two sorts but proving to
be identical. One of these trees was sent to Mr. Henry Lyons, Columbia,
South Carolina, and this bore fruit in 1851.[203] From Downing's stock
the variety was quickly and widely distributed and the horticultural
magazines of the time gave the new peaches wide publicity, so that,
from this and other importations which were made from time to time by
various persons, these peaches from northern China were universally
grown in the peach-orchards of America within a quarter of a century of
their introduction.

_South China peaches._--Those who have read the descriptions of
Chinese peaches in Chapter 1 (pages 14 to 21) recognize at once the
beaked varieties of South China, especially those growing about
Canton. These peaches, common enough in China and cultivated there
for centuries, reached occidental countries only in the middle of
the Nineteenth Century. They came to America as seeds from Dr. J. T.
Devan, Canton, China, to Mr. John Caldwell, Newburg, New York,[204]
and were introduced into Europe probably by M. Montigny, French Consul
at Shanghai, who sent seeds to the Jardin des Plantes, Paris, in
1852.[205] In recent years a number of fresh importations of seeds and
plants of these honey-flavored, beaked peaches have been made by the
United States Department of Agriculture.

A composite picture of South China peaches shows the following
characters:

Tree of medium size, upright-spreading; branches leaving the trunk
at an angle of about fifty degrees and curving upward; buds quite
prominent; flowers always large and very abundant, pale pink, base
of petals darker pink; leaves small, long, narrow, pointed, finely
serrate, conduplicate, distributed all along the limb, dark green,
in fall slightly tinged with red. Fruit small, oval, yellow or white
blushed with red, slightly flattened; skin adhering to the flesh;
suture very deep in basin, but does not extend more than one-third
the way down; apex long and recurved; flesh white or yellow; flavor
a peculiar honey-sweet; stone free or cling, long-pointed, generally
curved.

As yet these honey-flavored peaches are grown commercially only in the
Gulf States, the notion prevailing that they cannot be grown in the
North. Quite to the contrary they do exceedingly well as far north as
Geneva, though undesirable because of smallness of fruit and lateness
in ripening. Of the score of the descendants of the original Honey,
several are in bearing on the Station grounds, Climax, Imperial, Pallas
and Triana being illustrated in _The Peaches of New York_. All but two
or three of the varieties that are put in this group originated in
Florida and most of them come from the grounds of G. L. Taber, Glen
Saint Mary, of that State. An excellent bulletin, No. 73, from the
Florida Agricultural Experiment Station, published in 1904, by F. C.
Reimer, gives a full account of these peaches.

Is the beaked character permanent? That regions in time give rise to
racial strains must have occurred to all who have read the preceding
pages. The peach acquires distinct varietal characters in every
great geographical region in which it is grown. Possibly in no other
character is the change greater than in the long, pointed, erect or
recurved apex in common parlance called the beak. As a rule, the
farther south the more pronounced is the beak and the more oblong is
the fruit. In this respect, southern peaches, taking them as a whole,
are as markedly different from New York peaches as are the long,
crowned, angular-topped apples of the Pacific Northwest from the rotund
fruits of the Atlantic Northeast. The four sorts of honey-flavored
peaches described and illustrated in _The Peaches of New York_, named
in the foregoing paragraph, illustrate this well, none of them being
nearly so abruptly conical as specimens coming to us from the South.
Peaches in China, evidently, show the same modification, for those
discussed in the previous group are as markedly rotund as those in
this group are conic and beaked. It is a fair inference, then, that
the beaked character of the peach, counting time in generations of the
tree, is permanent only in southern climates.

_Peento peaches._--Another group of these Chinese peaches, not very
different from the South China varieties we have just given an account
of, is composed of the score or more sorts showing relationship to the
variety, Peento. These may be rather indefinitely described as follows:

Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading; branches willow-like,
branching at an angle of about forty degrees; flowers large, pink,
opening early, often at a low temperature and very irregularly; leaves
narrow, long, finely serrated, with reniform glands; inclined to be
evergreen; fruit sub-globose except in Peento which is flattened
endwise; skin white and mottled with carmine, parting readily from the
flesh; flesh white or yellow; flavor sweet, with a peculiar almond
taste; stone occasionally flattened endwise, either free or cling.
This race is adapted to sub-tropical parts of the Gulf States where it
ripens from May 1st to June 1st.

The Peento, which gives name to this group, is without doubt a
descendant of the flat peaches of China, common enough as we have
seen. The first tree, however, came from Java to England where it was
first grown by John Braddick under the name Java peach.[206] William
Prince,[207] Flushing, Long Island, imported the variety to America
some time previous to 1828 and grew it to the number of twenty trees.
The peaches from Prince's importation seem to have been lost and
the variety did not appear again in America until 1869 when P. J.
Berckmans,[208] Augusta, Georgia, brought seed from China, from one
of which came the Peento. Peento peaches in America are peculiar to
Florida, where all of the score or more varieties but the Peento have
originated. This group of peaches has been well described by H. Harold
Hume in Bulletin 62 of the Florida Experiment Station from which the
description given above is an adaptation.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] De Candolle, Alphonse _Or. Cult. Plants_ 222. 1885.

[2] Meyer, Frank N. _U. S. D. A. Plant Immigrants_ =No. 107=:862. 1915.

[3] Feb. 4, 1916.

[4] De Candolle, Alphonse _Or. Cult. Plants_ 228. 1885.

[5] Chinese Literature, Edited by Epiphanius Wilson Bk. I:126. 1902.

[6] _Ibid._ Bk. IX:148, 149. 1902.

[7] _Ibid._ Bk. XIII:161. 1902.

[8] Cibot, Pierre Martial _Mém. concernant l'hist. les sciences_
etc. _des Chinois_. =II=:280-293. 1777.

[9] _U. S. D. A. Plant Immigrants._ =No. 102=:823-825. 1914.

[10] Knight Thomas Andrew _Trans. Hort. Soc. Lond._ =3=:1. 1820.

[11] _Gard. Chron._ 531. 1856.

[12] _Gard. Chron._ 27. 1863.

[13] Darwin _Ans. and Pls. Domest._ =1=:357. 1868.

[14] Carrière, E. A. _Variétés De Pêchers_ 25-33. 1867.

[15] De Candolle, Alphonse _Or. Cult. Plants_ 229. 1885.

[16] _U. S. D. A. Bu. of Pl. Ind. Bul._ =227=:20. 1911.

[17] _Ibid._ =227=:47. 1911.

[18] _Ibid._ =233=:76. 1912.

[19] _Ibid._ =233=:77. 1912.

[20] _Ibid._

[21] _Ibid._

[22] _Ibid._ =233=:78. 1912.

[23] _Ibid._

[24] _Ibid._ =233=:80. 1912.

[25] _U. S. D. A. Bu. of Pl. Ind. Bul._ =242=:27. 1912.

[26] _Ibid._

[27] _Ibid._ =207=:62. 1911.

[28] _Ibid._ =233=:76. 1912.

[29] _Ibid._ =233=:78. 1912.

[30] _Ibid._

[31] _Ibid._

[32] _Ibid._ =106=:26. 1907.

[33] _Ibid._ =132=:80. 1908.

[34] _U. S. D. A. Bul. of For. Pl. Int._ =No. 32=:19. 1910.

[35] _U. S. D. A. Bu. of Pl. Ind. Bul._ =233=:77. 1912.

[36] _U. S. D. A. Bu. of Pl. Ind. Inv. of S & P. I._ 21. 1915.

[37] _U. S. D. A. Bu. of Pl. Ind. Bul._ =66=:95. 1905.

[38] _U. S. D. A. Bu. of Pl. Ind. Inv. of S. & P. I._ 32. 1914.

[39] _U. S. D. A. Bu. of Pl. Ind. Bul._ =106=:50. 1907.

[40] _Ibid._ =137=:31. 1909.

[41] _Ibid._ =233=:78. 1912.

[42] _Ibid._ =137=:31. 1909.

[43] _U. S. D. A. Plant Immigrants_ =No. 59=:404. 1911.

[44] _U. S. D. A. Bu. of Pl. Ind. Bul._ =66=:102. 1905.

[45] _Ibid._ =233=:80 1912.

[46] _Ibid._ =233=:80. 1912.

[47] _U. S. D. A. Plant Immigrants_ =103=:828. 1914.

[48] _U. S. D. A. Bu. of Pl. Ind. Bul._ =66=:189. 1905.

[49] _Ibid._ =66=:306. 1905.

[50] _Ibid._ =142=:21. 1909.

[51] _Ibid._ =66=:95. 1905.

[52] _Ibid._ =66=:95. 1905.

[53] _Ibid._

[54] _Ibid._

[55] _Ibid._ =233=:47. 1912

[56] _Ibid._ =242=:12. 1912.

[57] _U. S. D. A. Bu. of Pl. Ind. Bul._ =137=:31. 1909.

[58] _Ibid._

[59] _Ibid._ =137=:46. 1909.

[60] _Ibid._ =66=:191. 1905.

[61] _Ibid._ =162=:50. 1909

[62] _Ibid._

[63] _U. S. D. A. Plant Immigrants_ =51=:4. 1910.

[64] _Ibid._ =60=:411. 1911.

[65] _Ibid._ =60=:412. 1911.

[66] _Ibid._ =62=:431. 1911.

[67] M. Cibot, a French missionary, writing nearly a century and a half
ago in his memoirs concerning the Chinese (=II=:280-293. 1784), gives the
following account of peaches with which he was familiar in China at
that time:--

"Peaches are distinguished by size and color, the shape and earliness
of their fruit. There are some whose flesh is white, some greenish,
some a delicate yellow, some a yellow orange and some marble; some
are round, some oval, some lengthened to a point like a crow's beak.
Peaches are heard of weighing two pounds or even more. The largest
ones I have seen were scarcely three and a half inches in length and
diameter; as to earliness, in the middle provinces there are peaches
almost as soon as cherries. It is still more astonishing that some
varieties do not ripen here till October, and that there is a secret by
which they can be kept till January, just as fresh, just as beautiful,
and just as delicious as if right off the tree."

[68] Ikeda, T. _The Fruit Culture in Japan_ 32, 33. 1907.

[69] Loureiro, _Fl. Cochin._ 315.

[70] Royle, _Illust. Bot. Himal._ 204.

[71] Hooker, Sir Joseph, _Jour. of Bot._ 54. 1850.

[72] Hendricks, P. J. P. _U. S. D. A. Bur. Pl. Ind. Bul._ =97=:72. 1905.

[73] Meyer, F. W. _U. S. D. A. Bur. Pl. Ind. Bul._ =132=:80. 1908.

[74] _Montreal Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =12=:64, 65. 1886-87.

[75] Schuyler, Eugene _Turkestan_ =1=:296, 297. 1876.

[76] Lansdell, Henry _Russian Central Asia_ =1=:223. 1885.

[77] Lansdell, Henry _Russian Central Asia_ =1=:277. 1885.

[78] _Ibid._ =1=:608. 1885.

[79] _Ibid._ =2=:83. 1885.

[80] Bostock and Riley _Nat. History of Pliny_ =3=:296. 1855.

[81] Bostock and Riley _Nat. History of Pliny_ =3=:296. 1855.

[82] _Ibid._ =3=:293, 294. 1855.

[83] De Candolle Alphonse _Or. Cult. Plants_ 225. 1885.

[84] Duhamel Du Monceau _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:1-2. 1768.

[85] Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:10. 1879.

[86] Bostock and Riley _Nat. History of Pliny_ =4=:508. 1856.

[87] Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:10. 1879.

[88] Cecil, Hon. Mrs. Evelyn _A Hist. of Gard. in Eng._ 3. 1910.

[89] _Ibid._ 38. 1910.

[90] _Ibid._ 48. 1910.

[91] Gerarde _Herball_ 1446, 1447. 1633.

[92] Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 580, 582. 1629.

[93] This early Spanish publication is to be found in the Library of
Congress under the title _Molina's Vocubalario en Lengua Castellana y
Mexicana_ (1571). Mr. W. E. Safford, economic botanist in the United
States Department of Agriculture, has been kind enough to translate
Molina's reference to the peach. Mr. Safford writes:--

"On page 83a (the pages of Molina are numbered only on one side, and
this is the reverse of page 83) I find as a definition of the fruit
of Melocoton (Peach) the following:--_xuchipal durazno_ (red peach),
_cuztic durazno_ (yellow peach), _xocotl melocoton_ (plum peach). I
translate _xocotl_ "plum", because the Mexicans applied this word to
many plum-like fruits, or fruits more or less acid in distinction to
_tzapotl_, the general term applied to sweet soft fruits. The words
cited are all hybrid compounds of Nahuatl and Spanish. Whatever may be
the value of these citations, they establish the fact that the peach
was undoubtedly introduced into Mexico before 1571."

[94] _Explorations and Surveys for a Railroad Route from the
Mississippi River to the Pacific Ocean, War Department_ =3=:122. 1854.

[95] _Bul. Tor. Bot. Club_ =12=:85-86. Aug. 1885.

[96] Hilton, William, A Relation of a Discovery lately made on the
Coasts of Florida. 1664, Force _Hist. Tracts._ IV: =No. 2=:8.

[97] Bartram, William _Travels through North and South Carolina,
Georgia, East and West Florida_ 343. 1791.

[98] Bartram, William _Travels through North and South Carolina,
Georgia, East and West Florida_ 405. 1791.

[99] _Ibid._ 421. 1791.

[100] Kalm, Peter _Travels into North America_ =3=:127. 1771.

Peter Kalm is so often mentioned in the fruit-books published by this
Station that readers are entitled to know something about him. Kalm
was a Swede, born in 1715, died in 1779, who was sent by the Swedish
government to travel in North America. He landed in 1748 and spent
the next three years in travel in the settled parts of the New World
devoting himself to the study of the plant and animal life, the natural
phenomena, resources and agriculture of the Middle and Northern States
and Canada. On his return to Sweden, Kalm published an account of his
travels in America which was afterward translated into German and then
into English. To him we are indebted for much valuable information in
regard to the beginnings of agriculture and horticulture in the middle
of the Eighteenth Century in America. Kalm was a student of Linnaeus
and the great botanist perpetuated his memory by naming our beautiful
mountain laurel, _Kalmia_.

[101] Le Page Du Pratz, _Hist. La._ =2=:17. 1763.

[102] Hennepin _Nouvelle découverte d'un très grand pays_ etc., etc.
300. 1697.

[103] Kalm, Peter _Travels into North America_ =3=:79. 1771.

[104] Nuttall, Thomas _A Journal of Travels into the Arkansa Territory
During the Year 1819_, 79. 1821.

[105] _Ibid._ 101. 1821.

[106] Lawson, John _History of Carolina_, 181-183. 1714. Reprinted
at Raleigh, 1860. Lawson's History of Carolina contains the best
description of the natural resources of the southern Atlantic seaboard
published in colonial times. It is a book of nature rather than of
history and one of fascinating interest which cannot be read without
admiring and loving the author and mourning his sad fate. Poor Lawson
was burned at the stake by the Indians in 1711. We cannot refrain from
quoting his description of North Carolina as printed on page 79 of
his history: "A delicious country, being placed in that girdle of the
world which affords wine, oil, fruit, grain, and silk, with other rich
commodities, besides a sweet air, moderate climate, and fertile soil.
These are the blessings, under Heaven's protection, that spin out the
thread of life to its utmost extent, and crown our days with the sweets
of health and plenty, which, when joined with content, render the
possessors the happiest race of men upon earth."

[107] _Works of Captain John Smith_, Ed. by Edward Arber, 887. 1884.

[108] De Vries, David Peterson _Voyages from Holland to America_ 50.
1853.

[109] Neil, Rev. E. D. _Virginia Carolorum_ 50. 1869.

[110] Evelyn, Robert New Albion, Force _Hist. Tracts._ =II=: No. =7=:31.

[111] Norwood, Col. A Voyage to Virginia, Force _Hist. Tracts_,
=III=:No. =10=:5.

[112] Hammond, John Leah and Rachel or The Two Fruitful Sisters of
Virginia and Maryland 1656, Force _Hist. Tracts_, =III=:No. =14=:13.

[113] _Works of Capt. John Smith_ Ed. by Edward Arber, 886. 1884.

[114] Bruce, Philip Alexander _Economic History of Virginia in the
Seventeenth Century_ =1=:468, 469.

[115] Beverly, Robert _History of Virginia_. 259, 260. 1722. Reprinted
in Richmond 1855.

[116] _A New and Accurate Account of the Provinces of South Carolina
and Georgia._ Reprinted in _Collections of the Georgia Historical
Society._ =1=:50-51. 1840.

[117] _An Impartial Inquiry into the State and Utility of the Province
of Georgia_. Reprinted in _Collections of the Georgia Historical
Society_ =1=:199. 1840.

[118] Oldmixon, John _The British Empire in America_ 2nd Ed. =1=:515.
1741.

[119] Oldmixon, John _The British Empire in America_ 2nd Ed. London.
=1=:440. 1741.

[120] Watson _Annals of Phila._ =1=:46. 1856.

[121] Raum, John O. _History of New Jersey_, 108.

[122] Watson _Annals of Phila._ =1=:46. 1856.

[123] Acrelius, Israel _The History of New Sweden, or the Settlements
on the River Delaware_. Stockholm, 1759. Translated from the Swedish by
William M. Reynolds, D. D., Philadelphia, 1876, Vol. XI of the _Memoirs
of the Historical Society of Pennsylvania_ 151, 152.

[124] Kalm, Peter _Travels into North America_ =1=:71-73. 1770.

[125] Kalm, Peter _Travels into North America_ =1=:94. 1770.

[126] _Ibid._ =1=:222-223. 1770.

[127] Kalm, Peter _Travels into North America_ =2=:244, 245. 1771.

[128] Mss. in the library of Hobart College, Geneva, N. Y.

[129] David Thomas is now scarcely known in horticulture except as
he is spoken of as the father of America's well-known agricultural,
horticultural and pomological writer, John Jacob Thomas. Yet the father
merits recognition for his work in agriculture and horticulture. David
Thomas was a Quaker, born in Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, in 1776.
He became a civil engineer and moved to Aurora, Cayuga County, New
York, in 1805 and began to practice his profession. Later he became
one of the engineers in charge of the construction of the Erie Canal
and still later performed a similar service in building the Welland
Canal. Soon after, we find him a nurseryman and fruit-grower at
Aurora. Throughout his entire life, his son writes, he was interested
in horticulture, pomology and botany and by his writings on these
subjects, published principally in the _Genesee Farmer_, then the
leading agricultural paper in western New York, and in _Travels in
the Western Country in 1816_, published in Auburn in 1819, David
Thomas performed most valuable services in forwarding the cultivation
of fruits. He was a corresponding member of the London Horticultural
Society and of the Linnaean Society of Paris. His articles in the
_Genesee Farmer_ and other agricultural papers furnish the most
authoritative statements we have in regard to the early history of
fruit-growing in western New York. The name of David Thomas ought long
to be preserved by horticulturists of the State and country together
with that of his illustrious son, John Jacob Thomas.

[130] _Mass. Records_ =1=:24.

[131] _Mass. Hist. Collections_ 4th Ser. =VI=:499.

[132] _History of the Mass. Hort. Soc._ 16. 1829-1878.

[133] _Hist. Mass. Hort. Soc._ 17. 1829-1878.

[134] Darlington, Wm. _Memorials of Bartram_ 81. 1849.

[135] _Ibid._ 93. 1849.

[136] _Ibid._ 177. 1849.

[137] John Kenrick, one of the pioneer nurserymen on American soil,
began his business career by raising peach-seedlings. His nursery was
situated in the towns of Newton and Brighton, Massachusetts, and was
founded in 1790. As we have stated in the text, he early acquired
the art of budding and possibly was the first, or at least one of
the first, nurserymen to offer budded peach-trees for sale. In 1823,
he advertised in the _New England Farmer_ thirty varieties of budded
peaches five to eight feet high at thirty-three and one-third cents
each. These thirty varieties must have included practically all of
the named sorts then grown in America. It is interesting to note
that he states in the advertisement that the trees were packed with
clay and mats. It was in this year that William Kenrick, son of John
Kenrick, became a partner of his father. Beside growing peaches, the
Kenrick nurseries offered for sale other trees, vine and bush-fruits
and ornamentals as well. The Kenricks were also extensive growers of
currants from which they made currant-wine, their output in 1824 being
1700 gallons; in 1825, 3000 gallons and in 1826, 3600 gallons. The date
and place of John Kenrick's birth cannot be learned. His death occurred
in 1833 in the Kenrick mansion, built in 1720, standing near the
nurseries. New England, and peach-growers everywhere, owe him a debt of
gratitude for his services in horticulture.

[138] William Kenrick, son of John, of whom we have just written, was
born in 1795 in the family mansion on Nonantum Hill in the town of
Newton, Massachusetts. He was trained by his father as a nurseryman
and in 1823 became a partner in the Kenrick nurseries, of which he
soon after appears to have assumed control. The Kenrick nurseries,
at this time, were probably the most extensive and the best known of
any in New England. Besides growing the fruit-bearing plants of the
time and such ornamentals as were then to be found in America, the
Kenricks seem to have taken an enthusiastic part in the craze for the
Lombardy Poplar which was then raging in America. The elder Kenrick
must have been one of the early growers of this popular plant for in
1797 two acres of his nursery was appropriated to the Lombardy Poplar.
The son, in his turn an enthusiast, succumbed to the silk-culture
fad and seems in 1835 to have been one of the leading growers of the
mulberry, _Morus multicaulus_ for feeding silkworms. In this year
Mr. Kenrick published the _American Silk Growers Guide_, which is,
in essence, a treatise on mulberry-culture. William Kenrick's most
notable pomological achievement, however, was the publication of the
_New American Orchardist_ which appeared in 1833. While not the best
of the pomological manuals of the time, it is a valuable contribution
to American pomology because of its full descriptions of the fruits of
that date. Beginning with his father in 1823, William Kenrick continued
in the nursery business for twenty-seven years, probably growing,
importing and disposing of more fruit and ornamental trees than any
other nurseryman in New England during this time. He died in February,
1872, at the ripe age of 77, having lived to see the orchards planted
from his nursery come to full fruition and every part of New England
made more beautiful by the ornamental trees and shrubs grown under his
care.

[139] _Hist. Mass. Hort. Soc._ 33. 1880.

[140] Willich _Dom. Enc_. =4=:244-246. 1803.

[141] _Am. Farmer_ =1=:406, 407. 1821.

[142] Parkinson _A Tour in America_ =1=:212-219. 1805.

[143] An interesting account of peach-culture in Egypt is to be found
in _Agr'l Jour. of Egypt_ 3:=Pt. 2=:134-137. 1914.

[144] _A Voyage to Virginia_ Force's Hist. Tracts 3: =No. 5=:10.

[145] _U. S. D. A. Invent. of Seeds and Plants_ =No. 32=:14. 1914.

[146] _Transvaal Agr. Journal_ =No. 10, 3=:336. 1905.

[147] Darwin, Charles _Voy. of a Nat._ =1=:154.

[148] Bertero, _Ann. Sc. Nat._ 2=1=:350.

[149] Oakenfull, J. C. _Brazil_ 358. 1913.

[150] Wight, W. F. _Proc. Soc. Hort. Sci._ =10=:122-133, 1913.

[151] _Agr. Journal of the Cape of Good Hope_ No. 2, =27=:197. 1905.

[152] Boucher, W. A. _Con. New Zeal. Fruit Growers_ 89. 1901.

[153] _U. S. D. A. Bur. of Pl. Ind. Bul._ =137=:31. 1909.

[154] _Ibid._ =137=:48. 1909.

[155] _Ibid._

[156] _U. S. D. A. Bur. of Pl. Ind. Bul._ =162=:50. 1909.

[157] _U. S. D. A. Invent. of Seeds and Plants_ =No. 32=:14. 1914.

[158] _U. S. D. A. Bul. of For. Plant Int._ =No. 60=:411. 1911.

[159] _Ibid._ =No. 60=:412. 1911.

[160] _U. S. D. A. Bur. of For. Plant Int._ =No. 60=:431. 1911.

[161] _U. S. D. A. Plant Immigrants_ =No. 113=:920. 1911.

[162] _Ibid._ =No. 114=:929. 1911.

[163] Wickson, E. J. _Cal. Fruits_ 308. 1889.

[164] Gregory, C. T. _Cornell Bul._ =365=:219-220. 1915.

[165] _Trait. Arb. Fr._ 35. 1807.

[166] Darwin _Ans. and Pls. Domest._ 2nd Ed. =2=:217. 1893.

[167] Hedrick, U. P. _Science_ =37=:917. 1913.

[168] _U. S. D. A. Plant Immigrants_ No. =106=:858. 1915.

[169] _Trans. Hort. Soc. Lond._ =3=:1. 1820; =4=:396. 1822.

[170] See Duhamel _Traite Arb._ Ed. 2, IV: 112. 1809; Seringe in DC.
_Prodr._ II: 531. 1825; Reichenback _Fl. Ger. Exc._ 647. 1830-32.

[171] De Candolle _Or. Cult. Plants_, 225. 1885.

[172] _Commentaries_ on _Dioscorides_, French Ed. of 1572. 159-160.

[173] Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 582, 583. 1629.

"I presume that the name _Nucipersica_ doth most rightly belong unto
that kinde of Peach, which we call Nectorins, and although they have
beene with us not many yeares, yet have they beene knowne both in Italy
to Matthiolus, and others before him, who it seemeth knew no other
then the yellow Nectorin, as Dalechampius also: But we at this day doe
know five severall sorts of Nectorins, as they shall be presently set
downe; and as in the former fruits, so in this, I will give you the
description of one, and briefe notes of the rest.

The Nectorin is a tree of no great bignesse, most usually lesser then
the Peach tree, his body and elder boughes being whitish, the younger
branches very red, whereon grow narrow long greene leaves, so like
unto Peach leaves, that none can well distinguish them, unlesse it be
in this, that they are somewhat lesser: the blossomes are all reddish,
as the Peach, but one of a differing fashion from all the other, as I
shall shew you by and by: the fruit that followeth is smaller, rounder,
and smoother than Peaches, without any cleft on the side, and without
any douny cotton or freeze at all; and herein is like unto the outer
greene rinde of the Wallnut, whereof as I am perswaded it tooke the
name, of a fast and firme meate, and very delicate in taste, especially
the best kindes, with a rugged stone within it, and a bitter kernell.

The Muske Nectorin, so called, because it being a kinde of the best
red Nectorins, both smelleth and eateth as if the fruit were steeped in
Muske: some thinke that this and the next Romane Nectorin are all one.

The Romane red Nectorin, or cluster Nectorin, hath a large or great
purplish blossome, like unto a Peach, reddish at the bottome on the
outside, and greenish within: the fruit is of a fine red colour on the
outside, and groweth in clusters, two or three at a joynt together, of
an excellent good taste.

The bastard red Nectorin hath a smaller or pincking blossome, more
like threads then leaves, neither so large nor open as the former, and
yellowish within at the bottome: the fruit is red on the outside, and
groweth never but one at a joynt; it is a good fruit, but eateth a
little more rawish then the other, even when it is full ripe.

The yellow Nectorin is of two sorts, the one an excellent fruit,
mellow, and of a very good rellish; the other hard, and no way
comparable to it.

The greene Nectorin, great and small; for such I have seene abiding
constant, although both planted in one ground: they are both of one
goodnesse, and accounted with most to be the best rellished Nectorin of
all others.

The white Nectorin is said to bee differing from the other, in that
it will bee more white on the outside when it is ripe, then either the
yellow or greene: but I have not yet seene it.


The Use of Nectorins.

The fruit is more firme then the Peach, and more delectable in taste;
and is therefore of more esteeme, and that worthily."

[174] Darwin _Ans. and Pls. Domest._ 2nd Ed. =1=:357-365. 1893.

[175] Bretschneider E. _Bot. Explor. in China_ =2=:860. 1898.

[176] _Gard. and For._ =1=:153. 1888.

[177] Bretschneider E. _Bot. Explor. in China_ =2=:860. 1898.

[178] _U. S. D. A. Plant Immigrants_ No. =115=:940. 1915

[179] _U. S. D. A. Plant Immigrants_ No. =72=:516. 1912.

[180] _Prunus Davidiana alba_ Bean _Garden_ =50=:165. 1896; _Persica
Davidiana alba_ Carrière _Rev. Hort._ 76. 1872; _Prunus Davidiana flore
alba_ Wittmack Gartenfl. =44=:129. 1895.

[181] _Jour. Agr. Research_ =1=:147-177. 1913.

[182] _U. S. D. A. Seeds and Plants Imported_ Invent. =13=:173. 1908.

[183] _Trans. Hort. Soc. Lond._ =3=:380-387. 1820.

[184] _Ibid._ =5=:525-560. 1824.

[185] For a brief history of the life and pomological work of Gilbert
Onderdonk, the reader is referred to _The Plums of New York_, page 392.

[186] _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 648-651. 1887.

[187] _Tex. Sta. Bul_. =39=:826-832. 1896.

[188] _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 110. 1887.

[189] Waugh, F. A. _Systematic Pomology_, 178. 1903.

[190] Hume H. Harold _Fla. Sta. Bul._ =62=: 1902.

[191] Gould, H. P. _Md. Sta. Bul._ =72=:129. 1901.

[192] Wright, Charles _Cyc. of Am. Hort._ =3=:1240. 1900.

[193] Gould, H. P. _Md. Sta. Bul._ =72=:130. 1901.

[194] Shallcross, J. T. _Md. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =1=:17. 1898.

[195] Wright, Charles _Cyc. of Am. Hort._ =3=:1238. 1900.

[196] _Am. Farmer_ July, 1878.

[197] Rutter _Cult. & Diseases of the Peach_ 81, 82. 1880.

[198] _New England Farmer_ =7=:174.

[199] _Mag. Hort_. =5=:12.

[200] _Ohio Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 61. 1869.

[201] _Jour. Lond. Hort. Soc._ 221. 1846; l. c. 265. 1852.

[202] _Mag. Hort._ 475. 1851.

[203] _Horticulturalist_ 286, 472. 1853.

[204] _Horticulturist_ =1=:382. 1847.

[205] _Rev. Hort._ 11. 1861.

[206] _Trans. Hort. Soc. Lond._ =4=:512-513. 1822.

[207] Prince, Wm. _Treat. on Hort._ 16. 1828.

William Prince, second of the name in American pomology and third
proprietor of the celebrated Prince nurseries at Flushing, Long Island,
was born November 10, 1766, and died April 9, 1842. His grandfather,
a French Huguenot, was the founder of the establishment of which he
became owner, and in which he made his reputation. Under his father,
the first William Prince, the nursery at Flushing developed into a
great commercial nursery, a private experiment station, a testing
ground for American and foreign fruits and a botanic garden of American
plants. The mantle dropped by William Prince, the father, at his
death in 1802, fell upon the shoulders of William Prince, subject of
this sketch, then just reaching the prime of life and one of the most
brilliant and versatile pomologists the country has known. William
Prince continued most successfully the work of his father in breeding
new varieties, domesticating native plants and importing foreign fruits
and ornamentals. During his supervision the Prince Nursery reached
the height of its fame. It was conducted less for money than for love
of the work. An attempt was made to grow every American and European
plant-species having horticultural value. The catalogs published from
the nursery by William Prince are among the best horticultural and
botanical contributions of the first half of the Nineteenth Century.
Besides these, William Prince is the author of the _Treatise on
Horticulture_, published in 1828, and gave assistance to his son,
William Robert Prince, in preparing his _Pomological Manual_ published
in 1832. In the description of varieties in this text it will be found
that many varieties of peaches were originated, introduced, imported or
first described by William Prince.

[208] For a brief history of the life and horticultural activities of
Prosper Julius A. Berckmans, the reader is referred to _The Plums of
New York_, page 159.



PEACH-PRODUCTS

The magnitude of the peach-industry in the United States is better
appreciated if figures showing values are given. The value of peaches
and nectarines in 1909, for the United States, was $28,781,078, an
amount surpassed by only one other fruit, the apple. The highest value
for a geographical division is reported for the East North-Central
States, the amount being $5,173,000, followed by the South Atlantic
States with $4,888,000 and the Pacific States with $4,887,000. Of
individual states, California with her enormous area, over most
of which the peach thrives, ranks first, the value of the crop in
1909 reaching $4,574,000; the next most important State is Georgia,
$2,183,000; the third, New York, $2,014,000; these followed in order
of value by Michigan, Arkansas, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, Missouri,
Kentucky, Alabama, Tennessee and North Carolina, each with a crop of
more than $1,000,000 in value.

The peach has greater commercial value in the United States than all
other stone-fruits combined, the value of the crop in 1909, as we
have seen, amounting to $28,781,078 while the value of the plum was
$10,299,495; of the cherry, $7,231,160; of the apricot, $2,884,119; of
the almond, $712,000. The consumption of peaches is increasing year by
year. Until recently the peach has been considered a fruit of luxury,
but large plantations, good care, quick and safe transportation and
wide distribution now provide peaches for all who can afford to eat
fruit.

The profits of peach-growing are occasionally so enormous that the
publication of the figures is usually followed by excessive planting,
with consequent over-production and low prices, followed, in turn, by
scarcity and high prices. So, too, the peach is more at the mercy of
the seasons than any other standard tree-fruit and winter freezes and
spring frosts ruin crops in some part of the country every year and
often such disasters are widespread. These ups and downs, however,
instead of decreasing, seem to stimulate the peach-trade, probably, on
the part of the grower, because gambling is a universal vice; on the
part of the consumer, because he better appreciates peaches when the
blessing is occasionally withdrawn.

The chosen use for any choice fruit is to eat it as it comes from the
tree or as prepared fresh fruit for dessert. So the peach is chiefly
used the world over. Refreshing and delectable as any other fruit,
it has another quality, appreciated by those who sell as well as by
those who consume--it does not cloy the appetite. The insatiable
longing of the great lexicographer, Johnson, for peaches is common to
all lovers of this fruit. Boswell, Johnson's biographer, gives this
gustatory reminiscence of his famous patron: "He would eat seven or
eight large peaches of a morning before breakfast began, and treated
them with proportionate attention after dinner again, yet I have heard
him protest that he never had quite as much as he wished, except once,
in his life." In America the greater part of the crop is, no doubt,
eaten out of hand but peach-pie and peaches and cream, and peach-butter
are national dishes, while marmalades, jellies, pickles, preserves
and sauces are as common to this fruit as to any other. Besides the
innumerable cooked products, several refreshing domestic drinks are
made from the juice of peaches, as shrub and peach-wine, or it may be
frozen into sherbet or ice cream. Waste peaches are used with more or
less success as stock for vinegar. Peaches are canned and evaporated in
the United States on an enormous scale, nearly one-half the crop being
so utilized.

_Canned peaches._--Canning is conservation _in excelsis_. It is modern
compliance to the command, "Gather up the fragments that remain,
that nothing be lost." Without this method of preserving crops the
commercial culture of fruits and vegetables as carried on nowadays
would be ruined and no fruit would suffer as would the peach, since
it leads all others in quantity and value of the canned pack. The
value of canned peaches in the United States in 1909 was $3,753,698
or nearly one-seventh the total value of the crop and one may roughly
estimate the fruit canned at home to be half as much as that canned
in the factories. The product was put up in states, named in order
of value of the pack as follows: California, $3,013,203; Michigan,
$175,386; Maryland, $158,839; Georgia, $156,282; New York, $141,142.
These canned peaches go to every part of the world to which they can
be cheaply carried and are fit for consumption any time within two or
three years after being put up. The canning factory has revolutionized
the peach-industry in the United States by giving its products access
to the world-market.

Commercial canning is a specialist's business into which we cannot go.
The processes, essentially, are the same as those used in domestic
canning and consist in destroying all bacteria by heat and then
hermetically sealing the product in cans. In canning factories the
work is nearly all done by machinery, including peeling, pitting
and cutting the fruit, soldering the cans and putting on labels.
To purchase proper machinery, hire labor and manage both to secure
uniformity and cheapness in the product requires large capital and
keen business ability. Peaches are easy to handle in factories and
the work can be done so cheaply and the product is so acceptable that
the factory-canned fruit is rapidly taking the place of that which a
quarter of a century ago was almost wholly put up in the kitchen. The
canning industry originated, has been perfected and is now chiefly
carried on in the United States and Canada, though rapidly being
introduced elsewhere. The aid afforded the peach-grower in this country
by the canneries has been a great stimulus and makes the possibilities
of profitable production of this fruit in the future certain.

Orchard-canning on a small scale seldom proves feasible, succeeding
best, if at all, in a home industry to provide a special product for a
fancy or private trade. Occasionally, associations can command capital
enough to compete with the large business enterprises but as a rule
the peach-grower's interests are served best by the production of
acceptable fruit for those who are engaged in the canning industry.

In the East, New York for example, all surplus peaches of standard
varieties go to the cannery, though certain sorts have preference, but
on the Pacific Coast where peaches are grown for canning, the trade
demands a special type. The choice of varieties differs in different
localities so that a prescription of sorts to grow for the canning
trade cannot be made. Canners accept only yellow-fleshed peaches and
usually prefer clingstones since these stand up better in the can. This
preference is well shown in figures from California, where in 1913
only 583,800 cases, 24 cans to the case, of freestones were canned as
against 1,630,255 cases of clingstones. Fashion now demands varieties
red at the pit. Most cans in the great pack coming from California are
labeled "Lemon Cling," but this is really now but a trade name, the old
Lemon Cling, the pioneer sort in the canning trade, being little grown,
a dozen or more similar but improved peaches having taken its place.
The nectarine is canned in California but is not yet popular with
consumers despite the fact that the product is most appetizing and very
pleasing in appearance. Its smooth skin makes it one of the easiest of
all fruits to can.

_Evaporated peaches._--In regions distant from the markets evaporation
is an even richer resource of the peach-grower than canning. Thus, in
California in 1909, the value of the peaches canned was $3,013,203
while the dried product was valued at $2,333,137. The figures are
greater for canned peaches, but be it remembered that the canners'
profits and the cost of the cans must be deducted, whereas evaporated
peaches are almost wholly a home product, the grower receiving all of
the proceeds. The dried product is pure peach, almost devoid of water.
Peaches may be cured as dry as a bone and as hard as wood so that the
product will keep indefinitely in the temperate zone, and in this
super-dried state is shipped to the tropics. The apple is evaporated in
large quantities but is a by-product while the cured peach is usually
a primary product--a difference worth noting, for, with the apple, the
cream of the crop goes to the fresh fruit-market while the cured peach
is of the same grade as the dessert and canned fruit.

The dried-peach industry thrives only in regions, as California, where
the summers are sunny and rainless. The product is shipped so cheaply
that peach-growers in cloudy and humid climates, as in New York,
cannot use artificial heat in evaporators and compete with the cured
peaches from the Pacific Slope. In times past when communities were
more dependent on local resources, the farmer living almost wholly off
of his farm, peaches were cured in humid America though the product,
in appearance at least, was much inferior to that from regions having
favorable conditions for the evaporation of fruit. New York can hardly
hope to compete with California in curing peaches but two factors make
it barely possible that this State might make a minor industry out of
curing peaches. The factors are the enormous production of peaches
in the State, over-production being frequent, and the existence of a
great number of apple-evaporators which might be utilized in curing the
earlier ripening peaches. It seems worth while, therefore, to go rather
fully into the details of curing peaches as practiced in California
with the hope that their methods may be modified for use in New York
evaporators. The subjoined footnote gives the best account we are able
to find of the dried-fruit industry in California and of curing peaches
in particular.[209]

The most obvious change which takes place in curing peaches is the
loss of water but several other important changes occur which even
more materially alter the flavor of the product. According to C. F.
Langworthy[210], Chief of the Office of Home Economics, United States
Department of Agriculture, the carbohydrates which make up the largest
part of the solid matter of fruits undergo greatest changes. The crude
fibre, too, is reduced in amount or softened. Much of the starch is
changed into some form of sugar and the less soluble sugar may be
reduced to a more soluble form. Some of the volatile oils and other
ethereal bodies, so important in giving flavor to fruits, pass off
or are modified by the curing processes. These changes insure longer
keeping in the product, give it greater food value than fresh fruit,
pound for pound, leaving it quite as digestible, but not as refreshing
and palatable.

Peach-leather was a common dried peach-product in the old domestic
epoch before the coming of railroads, steamboats and the establishment
of canning and drying industries. Though not now common, peach-leather
is still made in many communities in the East, more particularly in the
southeastern states. The peaches are peeled, pitted and then mashed
into a thin layer which is dried in the sun or an oven, the resulting
product taking on the appearance of leather. Peach-leather is said to
keep indefinitely, this being its chief merit.

Peach-brandy is still a commercial product of considerable importance
though the amount made nowadays, as compared with that made a hundred
years ago before prohibition began to be preached, is but a drop in the
bucket when the number of bushels raised is considered. According to
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue,[211] the quantity of peach-brandy
made in 1908, the last year reported, was 13,649.5 gallons, most of
which came from California. Peach-brandy is made by converting the
sugar of the fruit into alcohol and then distilling. The finished
liquor contains about 50 per ct. alcohol. In European countries,
peach-kernels are much used in flavoring a liquor called Eau de Noyau.

According to Bulletin 133, Bureau of Plant Industry, United States
Department of Agriculture, valuable fixed and volatile oils can be
produced from the kernel of the peach. Peach-stones are now burned as
fuel by most canneries, excepting small quantities sold to nurseries
for propagation. The possibility of producing oils from the kernels
seems well worth looking into, since there is now an enormous waste of
this part of the fruit by canneries. Oils extracted from peach-kernels
may be used for the same commercial purposes as the almond oils;
namely, in medicine, for soaps, cosmetics, perfumes and confections.
The processes of extraction and distillation are not complex and
establishments equipped with steam would have little difficulty in
extracting these oils. It is said, too, that the press-cake from
which the oils have been extracted makes valuable stock-foods or
fertilizers owing to its high content of nitrogenous matter. It is
estimated that in California alone the quantity of peach-pits obtained
as a by-products of canneries amounts to 10,000 tons in a normal
year; that these would yield from 600 to 1,200 tons of kernels from
which 210 to 420 tons of oil could be extracted. The wholesale price
of bitter-almond oil, or oils purchased under this name, for which
peach-oil could be substituted, is from $3.25 to $4.75 per pound.

Pliny named several medicinal uses for the peach and from his time
down the flesh, kernels, leaves, bark and blossoms have had a place
in the pharmacopoeia of various countries though nowadays little used
except in domestic therapeutics. All of the structures named abound in
a bitter and astringent principle and most of them produce hydrocyanic
acid upon maceration with water. The peach might have value in medicine
for this acid were not the chemical more easily obtained elsewhere. The
oils from the kernels, as we have seen, may be used in medicine. Noting
the medicinal uses to which peach-products have been put by various
peoples in various times we find: The leaves are pounded and boiled in
vinegar for a liniment, an eye-wash, a cure for "scurf," a preventive
of bald heads, and as an insecticide on the heads of children. The
blossoms, treated in various ways, have been used for the same ailments
and also as a febrifuge. The burned pits are also used in making
lampblack for paints.

For more than two thousand years stories have been rife of the
poisonous properties of peach-pits and peach-leaves. In a careful
perusal of peach-literature for this period and in several languages
we have not found a single case cited of fatal results to man or beast
from eating the leaves or kernels of peaches. No doubt these stories
arise from common knowledge that parts of the peach, as the kernels
and possibly the leaves, contain prussic acid though in so minute
quantities as never to be toxic in any quantity likely to be eaten by
humans or animals. No doubt, too, the myth that the Persians sent the
peach to the Egyptians as a deadly poison is still perpetuated.

The wood of the peach is fine-grained and takes a beautiful polish and
in Europe is used somewhat in cabinet-work and toy-making. Its numerous
reddish-brown veins make it a most beautiful wood but the trees seldom
attain sufficient size to give the species value as a lumber-product.

The peach is attractive to the eye at all seasons. A tree or an
orchard in bloom is a strikingly beautiful sight while a panorama in a
peach-country in flowering-time is one of the most beautiful scenes in
nature. There is a great difference in the floral beauty of varieties,
some sorts having very inconspicuous flowers while others rank with our
finest ornamentals when in bloom. Several types of _Prunus persica_
are planted for beauty of flower and foliage but the fruit-producing
peaches are almost never planted for landscape effect though their
peculiarly sunny expression in leaf and flower, one of the best types
of cheerfulness among trees, should make them useful either standing
alone or in mass for ornamental planting. Those who have seen the wild
wayside peaches of Kentucky or Tennessee in bloom will always think of
the species as an ornamental as well as a fruit-tree.


PEACH-YELLOWS

Yellows is a disease or malignant condition, it is not known which,
virulent and contagious whatever it may be, and is the possession
primarily of the region north of the Ohio and Potomac and east of the
Mississippi. At one time or another it has been a cause of decline of
the peach-orchards in every part of the region outlined. Epidemics of
yellows have wholly obliterated thriving peach-industries which in some
cases covered counties. The changes wrought by yellows come so quickly
and are so final, so complete and so widespread in their consequences
that the disease stands alone among the troubles of plants in the
extent of its influence on the crop affected. Under somewhat better
control now, its havoc is less than formerly, but in the past it has
outdone all other accidents combined that have happened to peaches
in America, including frosts, floods, drought, insects, fungi and
injuries due to man and quadrupeds. The mystery of yellows in most of
its aspects makes its known history all the more significant. We lack
knowledge of what it is, or whence it came, nor do we know of any cure;
we know only some of the circumstances and the terrible consequences to
the peach. Yellows began its siege of the peach in the very beginning
of commercial peach-growing in America. Much of the history of the
peach is written in the hundred-years-warfare that has ensued.

Judge Richard Peters of Philadelphia first described and gave name to
peach-yellows. February 11, 1806, he read a paper "On Peach Trees"
before the Philadelphia Society for Promoting Agriculture. In this
paper we have the first clear account of yellows:[212]

"About fifty years ago, on the farm on which I now reside, my father
had a large peach orchard, which yielded abundantly. Until a general
catastrophe befell it plentiful crops had been for many years produced
with very little attention. The trees began nearly at once to sicken,
and finally perished. Whether by the wasp then undiscovered, or by some
change in our climate, I know not. For forty years past I have observed
the peach trees in my neighborhood to be short-lived. Farther south, in
the western country, and, it seems, in some parts of New Jersey they
are durable and productive as they had been formerly here. * * * The
worm or grub, produced by the wasp depositing its progeny in the soft
bark near the surface of the ground, is the most common destroyer. *
* * When trees become sickly I grub them up. I find that sickly trees
often infect those in vigor near them by some morbid effluvia. Although
I have had trees twenty years old, and knew some of double that age
(owing probably to the induration of the bark rendering it impervious
to the wasp, and the strength acquired when they had survived early
misfortunes), yet in general they do not live in tolerable health after
bearing four or five crops. * * * Fifteen or sixteen years ago I lost
one hundred and fifty peach trees in full bearing in the course of two
summers by a disease engendered in the first season. I attribute its
origin to some morbid infection in the air. * * * The disorder being
generally prevalent would, among animals, have been called an epidemic.
From perfect verdure the leaves turned yellow in a few days, and the
bodies blackened in spots. Those distant from the point of infection
gradually caught the disease. I procured young trees from a distance
in high health and planted them among the least diseased. In a few
weeks they became sickly, and never recovered. * * * After my general
defeat and most complete overthrow, in which the worm had no agency, I
recruited my peaches from distant nurseries, not venturing to take any
out of those in my vicinity. I have since experienced a few instances
of this malady, and have promptly, on the first symptoms appearing,
removed the subjects of it, deeming their cases desperate in themselves
and tending to the otherwise inevitable destruction of others."

In the last few lines of this account, Judge Peters gives the only
means so far discovered to check the spread of the disease--the prompt
destruction of affected trees--a striking commentary on the baffling
nature of yellows when we consider what science has done, since Judge
Peters wrote, toward the control of other plant-diseases. In a note of
later date, page 23 of the same article, Judge Peters speaks of "the
disease I call the yellows," thus giving name to a trouble that until
then had been known as "decay" or "degeneracy" in the peach.

Later Judge Peters writes:[213] "I am pursuing my old plan of
re-instating my peach trees lost last season (1806 or 1807) by my
unconquerable foe, the disease I call the yellows. I obtain them from
different nurseries free from this pestiferous affection. The worm or
wasp (Ægeria) I have in complete subjection. I should be perfectly
disinterested in proposing that the society offer a premium for
preventing the disease so fatal; for I shall never gain the reward."

And again:[214] "I still think that the disease so generally fatal
(more so this year than any other in my memory), called the yellows,
is atmospherical. * * * Compare this account (of thrifty orchards in
Delaware) with the actual state of the peach in our country, and judge
whether we live in a region favorable to its growth. Mr. Heston's
attempt at cultivating this tree in the Southern manner begins already
to fail. His trees are evidently infected, and many are on the decline.
The yellows are universally prevalent this season throughout the whole
country (_i. e._, around Philadelphia)."

We have given but little out of much that Judge Peters wrote on
yellows, his observations and experiences covering nearly a generation.
We have quoted sufficiently from his accounts, however, indubitably to
establish the fact that peach-yellows was rampant about Philadelphia at
least as early as 1800. Smith[215] puts the appearance of yellows in
this region as probably some time prior to 1791. By this time there was
a considerable body of scientific and practical agricultural literature
in America, and we may assume, since no trouble that could possibly
be identified as yellows had been described as existing elsewhere in
America, though the peach-borer is frequently discussed, that the
disease at this period, about 1800, was restricted to the neighborhood
of Philadelphia.

We now find the yellows gradually extending into neighboring
states--Delaware, New Jersey, Maryland and New York. Wm. Coxe of New
Jersey who in 1807 wrote Judge Peters, "I am perfectly ignorant of the
disease to which you give the name yellows," in 1817 knew it only too
well as "a malady which no remedy can cure nor cultivation avert," and
devotes nearly two pages in his _Fruit Trees_ to a discussion of its
nature.[216] References to yellows in all of the states named by this
time had become general. Our purpose to show the spread, effects, and
early treatment of the disease is fully served by quoting at length
from a single author--a keen observer, careful writer and the most
notable horticultural and botanical authority of his time, Wm. Prince,
of Flushing, Long Island.[217] To Prince, by the way, we are indebted
for the first reference to what is now considered the most certain
symptom of yellows--premature ripening of fruit. Prince says:

"This disease, which commenced its ravages in New Jersey and
Pennsylvania about the year 1797, and in New York in 1801, and has
spread through several of the states, is by far more destructive to
peach trees than the worm, and is evidently contagious. This disease
is spread at the time when the trees are in bloom, and is disseminated
by the pollen or farina blowing from the flowers of diseased trees,
and impregnating the flowers of those which are healthy, and which
is quickly circulated by the sap through the branches, foliage, and
fruit, causing the fruit, wherever the infection extends, to ripen
prematurely. That this disease is entirely distinct from the worm, is
sufficiently proved by the circumstance, that peach trees which have
been inoculated on plum or almond stocks, though less affected by the
worm, are equally subject to the yellows--and a decisive proof of its
being contagious is, that a healthy tree, inoculated from a branch of
a diseased one, instead of restoring the graft to vigour and health,
immediately becomes itself infected with the disease. As all efforts
totally to subdue it must require a long course of time, the best
method to pursue towards its eventual eradication, is to stop its
progress, and prevent its farther extension--to accomplish which, the
following means are recommended, which have been found particularly
successful.

As soon as a tree is discovered to possess the characteristics of the
disease, which is generally known by the leaves putting on a sickly
yellow appearance--but of which the premature ripening of the fruit is
a decisive proof--it should be marked, so as to be removed the ensuing
autumn, which must be done without fail, for if left again to bloom, it
would impart the disease to many others in its vicinity; care is also
necessary, in its removal, to take out all the roots of the diseased
tree, especially if another is to be planted in the same place, so that
the roots of the tree to be planted may not come in contact with any of
those of the one which was diseased.

If your neighbour has trees infected with the yellows in a quarter
contiguous to yours, it will be necessary to prevail on him to remove
them, that yours may not be injured by them. By being thus particular
in speedily removing such trees as may be infected, the disease is
prevented from extending itself to the rest of the orchard, and the
residue will consequently be preserved in perfect health at the
trifling loss of a few trees annually from a large orchard."

The influence of yellows on the peach-industry of the country is shown
by indicating when it appeared in the various states in which peaches
are grown in eastern America and by noting the effects of epidemics of
the disease.

In Pennsylvania, following the first outbreak, peach-growing all but
disappeared, to reappear again from time to time in new regions or in
old ones following an interval of years after a plague had passed.
Periods and places of epidemics are indicated by such quotation as
follow: Wm. G. Warren, Centre County, reports in 1851: "A majority
of the peach trees have been destroyed by the yellows."[218] In
the proceedings of the American Pomological Society for 1852, a
Pennsylvanian reports for the State: "Peaches have done but ill with
us for some years past. The yellows have swept off thousands of
trees."[219] In 1880 in a book on the peach, Rutter devotes many pages
to yellows in Pennsylvania and speaks of "thousands of trees dead and
dying from the disease in Chester and Delaware counties."[220] The
epidemic in the eighties seems to have been particularly severe, there
being at the end of the decade but 1,146,342 bearing trees in the State
which by 1900 had increased to 3,521,930 trees.

Perhaps of all states, in proportion to area planted, New Jersey has
suffered most from yellows. Beginning with the epidemic mentioned by
Coxe in 1817, there have been several disastrous irruptions of the
disease in that State. A particularly destructive epidemic must have
raged in the early forties, for in 1846 W. R. Prince, Flushing, Long
Island, says:[221] "Any one who visits the once splendid peach orchards
in various parts of New Jersey will be struck by the desolate aspect
of innumerable plantations of dead trees, with only here and there
a sprig of verdure amid the mighty mass." Another writer, Colonel
Edward Wilkins, says: "Fifty thousand acres in peach trees, in two
counties only, had been destroyed by the yellows prior to 1850;" and
in 1858, he further states that "at that time nearly the whole of the
peach orchards of New Jersey had been destroyed by yellows."[222]
He concludes, in the same article, that "in New Jersey the peach
belongs to the past." We choose as the last of the many accounts of
disaster from yellows in this State two quotations from Professor P. D.
Penhallow written in 1882:[223]

"In New Jersey, where the ravages of the disease have been more
seriously felt than elsewhere, the southern counties were formerly
the center of the peach industry for the entire State, but, owing to
the prevalence of the yellows the peach orchards have been gradually
moving northward, until at the present time the counties of Morris
and Hunterdon have the largest interest involved, and the prospect is
that a few more years will see even these localities deprived of the
industry."

"The peach growers of New Jersey consider an orchard worth nothing
after the age of nine years. At that time they root out all the trees
as they would so many corn stumps, and use the land for general crops,
planting a young orchard of seedlings each year to make good the loss."

Still passing northward from the first center of infection, we come to
New York, where, according to Wm. Prince, in a foregoing quotation,
the disease appeared as early as 1801. The son of this writer, W.
R. Prince, in the continuation of the article quoted on page 121,
written in 1846, says: "In this island the malady became exhausted
some years since by the utter destruction of the old orchards, and
the determination not to plant new ones until it became extinct. This
proved most fortunate as the disease has been for years banished from
Long Island, and now new orchards are springing up everywhere, and
every garden is becoming readorned with the finest varieties of the
Peach 'redolent with health.'" A. J. Downing,[224] writing in 1849,
reports: "Fifteen years ago there was scarcely a tree in the vicinity
of Newburgh that was not more or less diseased with the yellows. By
pursuing the course we have indicated (destruction by burning), the
disease has almost disappeared." Thirty years later, Charles Downing,
writing from Newburgh, states: "We have had the yellows here at
intervals for over sixty years, some times continuing for five or six
years and then several years free from it."

At present, 1916, peaches are freely planted along the Hudson in the
region of which the Downings wrote, and, whether from following the
method of A. J. Downing in burning the trees, or whether we are in one
of the intervals of immunity noted by Charles Downing, peach-yellows,
while present, causes but small losses. One might enlarge at length on
the vagaries of yellows but we can concern ourselves only with the main
facts of its history. We now follow the disease from eastern to western
New York.

Looking through the records of the hundred years of peach-growing in
western New York, we find little to indicate that yellows has ever
been the scourge in this region that it is pictured to have been
eastward and southward or even westward in Michigan. The explanation?
Growers, as a rule, promptly cut out diseased trees. Here there has
been less dilly-dallying and fewer hocus-pocus remedies in treating
yellows. Western New York, more than other regions, has been favored
in the century past by its many eminent horticulturists, several
fruit-growers' societies and by farmers' publications. The result is
that there is an enlightened and energetic body of peach-growers, who,
instead of catching and catching at every will-o-the-wisp notion about
yellows, have prevented its spread by proper orchard-sanitation. Yet
the yellows is here and has been since 1824 at least. In that year
David Thomas, father of J. J. Thomas, the pomological writer, planted
peaches from Flushing, Long Island, on the shore of Cayuga Lake, which
developed yellows with the resulting loss of every tree.[225] But in
1844 John J. Thomas records: "In Western New York it is comparatively
unknown, and great care should be used by cultivators that it be not
introduced by importations."[226] In New York the depreciation of real
estate caused by yellows has not been nearly so marked as in other
peach-regions because of the greater diversification of fruit-growing
than in other eastern states.

This region not only has not had yellows continuously but has never had
the sudden and violent invasions of the disease that have laid waste
the orchards in other communities of intensive culture of this fruit.
The one exception, possibly, was in the decade running from 1875 to
1885. A. M. Smith,[227] writing in 1878, says that hundreds of bushels
of high-colored, insipid, premature peaches were sold in western New
York in 1877, that one orchard in Niagara County was destroyed by the
disease and that others in the vicinity were badly affected. Charles
W. Garfield, a prominent Michigan horticulturist, reported in 1880
that J. S. Woodward of Lockport, New York, had a young orchard of
peaches, covering thirty acres, so badly diseased that the trees would
have to be taken out before having produced a crop. Later, 1887,[228]
Mr. Woodward, speaking for his neighborhood, says that yellows has
"nearly finished the orchards."[229] To conclude as to the conditions
of orchards at the close of this epidemic, we have from Col. F. D.
Curtis[230] the report, in 1887, that yellows had destroyed whole
orchards in the western counties of New York especially in Niagara
and Ontario. At this writing, 1916, yellows may almost be said to be a
minor difficulty in peach-growing in western New York.

Peach-culture has been comparatively unimportant in Connecticut and
Massachusetts until recent years but the toll taken by yellows has
been proportionately as high as elsewhere in the hundred years of its
trespassing. The history of its ravages is told in such statements
as follows: "Yellows appeared in the vicinity of New Haven in 1820
and destroyed thousands of trees nearly putting an end to peach
growing."[231] "The yellows are destroying our peach trees."[232]
"Peaches are infected with yellows and are generally things of the
past."[233] "Cultivation of the peach is now abandoned in consequence
of that scourge to that fruit known as yellows."[234] The foregoing
accounts apply to Connecticut but reports are much the same for
Massachusetts, the following being typical: A writer in 1882 declares
that yellows about Boston was unknown in 1837 but that "when it came
it swept everything."[235] "Thirty or forty years ago (1842-1852)
peaches were grown in great abundance in this vicinity (northeast
Massachusetts) but for the last twenty years have been almost
abandoned."[236] "In former years (said in 1854) peach trees have
rarely suffered from yellows in this neighborhood (Cambridge) where now
many trees are affected by it."[237]

Sweeping westward from New York, yellows appeared in Ohio about the
middle of the Nineteenth Century, for, in 1851, an orchard of 600 trees
at Saint Clairsville was said to have been destroyed by it.[238] In
the same year the report came from Richard County: "Our peach trees
are somewhat affected by yellows."[239] In the years that follow, down
to the present time, the presence of yellows, its symptoms, affects
and treatment are discussed in the voluminous records of agriculture
in Ohio as a commonplace part in the culture of the peach though the
disease seems not to have been quite so virulent nor so often epidemic
in Ohio as in other prominent peach-growing states.

Nowhere has the haste and waste of yellows been more apparent than
in the peach-belt of western Michigan. The history of the disease is
well established in this region, the main facts being: The disease
appeared about Saint Joseph and Benton Harbor, Berrien County, in
the late sixties of the last century. At first spreading slowly, its
movement became more rapid "until by 1877-78 it was destructively
prevalent in nearly every orchard in the county."[240] "The peach
industry was literally swept out of Berrien County in one decade.
There can be no doubt of this. From being the foremost peach county
in Michigan, with an acreage more than equal to that of all other
counties combined (6000 acres in 1874), it became ninth in order, and
could boast of only 503 acres."[241] In 1877, T. T. Lyon declares:[242]
"This violent and contagious disease has nearly destroyed the peach
orchards at Saint Joseph." Three years later in the annual report of
the State Pomological Society, Charles W. Garfield, secretary, says
"there are scarcely any peach orchards left at Saint Joseph."[243] The
depreciation of peach-lands at this time, due to yellows, was so great
as to threaten the community with bankruptcy.

Pitiful was the case of the growers in Berrien County; pitiful enough
that of those in Van Buren County, next on the north, but not so bad
owing to the timely and strict enforcement of a "yellows law" early
passed by the State legislature. The disease seems to have become
established in Van Buren County about 1870 but did not become rampant
until four or five years later "when about five per cent of the trees
were found diseased and were taken out."[244] Then came such reports
as these: "At least 5,000 trees have been destroyed by this disease
the past season in this county alone."[245] "That dreaded ravage of
the peach-grower, yellows, has made slow but marked progress during
the years in this locality."[246] "If the yellows continues to spread,
it will be only a question of years when peach-growing will cease on
the lake shore."[247] These three reports, out of many such, give the
condition of the peach-orchards in western Van Buren. In the eastern
part of the county, especially about Lawton where the peach is largely
grown, the disease was later in appearing, cutting out was more
strictly attended to, and the damage, therefore, was markedly less.

Allegan County, north of Van Buren, along the lake shore at least,
suffered from yellows rather less, though nearly as badly as the
region to the south. The disease was less and less virulent as the
peach-belt extends northward. At Traverse City, the most northern
point in the peach-belt, yellows has never been epidemic. Passing
eastward, the disease appeared about Grand Rapids, the center of
peach-culture in Kent County, in 1883 and in the decade that followed
took from peach-growers the toll usual in western Michigan. Eastward
from Kent County, however, in the several small and rather isolated
cases of peach-growing yellows either has not appeared or has been an
unimportant factor.

The lowest ebb in Michigan orchards from yellows was reached in the
eighties after which new plantings increased remarkably, the number
of bearing trees in 1889 being but 1,919,104 and in 1899, 8,104,415.
The disease still persists in Michigan wherever in former times it
became established. Yellows seems, however, to have lost much of its
old time virulency; or, perhaps, the fact that peach-growers are more
prompt and thorough in destroying diseased trees accounts for the
decrease of the disease. Then, too, the Michigan peach-belt has had the
bitter experience in the last decade or two, of several winter freezes
which have wiped out whole orchards, discouraged many planters, and,
together with the keen competition of new peach-regions, reduced the
size of orchards and scattered the plantations so that, in the lessened
communal intensity, yellows has less opportunity.

Going back, now, to the place of first infection and passing southward,
we find that yellows, though not more virulent in Delaware than in
Michigan, was much more devastating. Destruction is the only efficient
method in treating yellows. The necessity of this drastic measure
has been proclaimed by every authority from Judge Peters, discover
of yellows, down. The strong arm of the law in many states enforces
destruction. In Delaware, however, growers were more dilatory in
destroying yellows-trees than elsewhere--in fact for the first
half-century made little attempt so to check the disease. When the
scales fell from the eyes of orchard-owners in this State the industry
was already ruined. From hundreds of accounts, the ups and downs of
peach-growing in Delaware as caused by yellows may be shown by a few
brief statements.

The peach-industry began in Delaware about 1830 and there are few
references to peach-yellows until a decade or two after that time,
though Dr. John J. Black says that the disease had been known in the
State "since the war of 1812."[248] The yellows-sweep really began
in the northern part of Delaware in New Castle County, in the early
forties, when, according to John Delano, Isaac Reeves' peach-trees
were dying of yellows by the score "maugre all his care, cultivation
and circumspection."[249] In 1846, James W. Thompson, in a splendid
account of the peach-industry in Delaware, names the borer and yellows
as the two devastating enemies of this fruit and speaks of the
latter as a "constitutional, consumptive or marasmatic disease for
which no other remedy is known or to be practiced, but extirpation
and destruction."[250] "By 1855 the yellows had taken possession of
nearly all the orchards, and peach culture in this section was at an
end."[251] Yet in the same county, about Middletown, but a few miles
to the south, the disease though present was not epidemic nor did it
become so until twenty years later.

With the passing of the orchards in northern New Castle, the southern
part of the county became the center of the industry in Delaware.
Here, in the early seventies, there were from 1,000,000 to 1,750,000
trees covering from 10,000 to 17,500 acres.[252] Yellows, according
to numerous accounts, became virulent about 1870, was at its height
in 1875, after which the progress and outcome of the epidemic is
essentially the same as in the northern part of the county--the
yellows-sweep was driving slowly but surely southward. Thus, in 1880,
the center of the industry was in Kent County, second south of the
three counties in Delaware, there being in 1879, according to the
census of 1880, nearly 2,000,000 trees covering nearly 20,000 acres in
this county. Yellows, present and widespread at an early date in Kent,
was not alarmingly destructive until the summers of 1886 and 1887, when
in the northern two-thirds of the county the disease "spread like wild
fire." At this time and as late as 1890, there was little yellows in
southern Kent and northern Sussex, but before the end of the century
the whole State had been swept by yellows. There are no census figures
for peaches until 1890 when the number of bearing trees in Delaware was
4,521,623. The toll taken by yellows, augmented by San Jose scale, is
indicated by the falling off in number of trees in the next decade, at
the end of which there were 2,441,650 trees and after another decade,
1909, but 1,177,402 trees.

Beginning late in the last century, however, there was a revival in
peach-planting in Delaware, especially the northern part of the State,
and now a new peach-industry seems well started in which, through
energetic orchard-sanitation and diversified horticulture, yellows, for
the present at least, is held at bay. The palmy days of fabulous prices
for peaches and peach-lands, however, are past in Delaware. Here, as in
other communities ravaged by yellows, the value of lands has sunk to
a half or a quarter of what it would have brought a generation ago in
the height of peach-culture. In some cases property, formerly valuable,
has lost all value--a peach-farm will not sell at any price. The best
peach-lands are seldom fit for other crops, so that in Delaware, New
Jersey and Michigan the whole community, including railroads and
steamboat lines, suffers to the verge of bankruptcy when yellows
exterminates the orchards.

Probably in no other State in the Union is the peach more perfectly
at home than in Maryland, it having held undisputed supremacy among
fruits in that State for over a century and a half. Yellows, though
always menacing, has not been so devastating as in Delaware to the
north. Erwin F. Smith thinks that yellows has been present in the
northern counties of eastern Maryland for many years--since 1844 or
1845. In his detailed account of the disease in this State[253] he
records but one destructive outbreak of yellows, this occurring in the
summers of 1886, 1887 and 1888 in the northeastern part of the State
where in two counties along the whole length of the Sassafras River
it was destructively present. Smith notes that yellows, at this time,
"is moving southward on the peninsula." Since Smith's account, 1888,
reports from Maryland show that, while the disease is still present
and is now in practically all parts of the State, either it is not now
so virulent or is kept in check by extirpating diseased trees. Still,
however, the great decrease in the number of peach-trees in Maryland in
the last twenty years is largely due to yellows, there being 6,113,287
bearing trees in 1889, but 4,017,854 in 1899, and only 1,497,724 in
1909.

In the South, west of the Mississippi, and on the Pacific Coast,
yellows does not exist or if so is not epidemic.

Would that it could be recorded, as we conclude this brief account of
yellows and its plague-spots in America, that in the hundred years
of conflict some headway had been made in ascertaining from whence
the disease came, what its cause and what the cure. Would, too, that
we could believe that the final holocaust has passed. But we cannot
bandage our eyes against the facts. We are as profoundly ignorant
of yellows as at the start. And, while New York at the moment is
nearly free from yellows, everywhere the sinister reminders of ancient
epidemics, like skeletons at a feast that are never out of sight, bid
us be on our guard for new outbreaks.


PEACH-BREEDING

But little effort has been made, as the histories of its varieties
show, to breed peaches. All but a very few varieties have come from
chance seedlings. Peaches were grown from seed for centuries and many
types now come true when seeds are planted. After budded trees became
the vogue, until Mendel's great discovery, breeding the peach consisted
in selecting an occasional meritorious tree, multiplying it by budding
and, if it had pronounced merit, turning it over to a nurseryman
for the trade. The art progressed no further because selection was
thought to be the fundamental process in improving plants and breeders
preferred to work in fields where the harvests were more immediate
than in tree-fruits. Now that plant-breeding centers around controlled
hybridization, plants propagated vegetatively should receive quite as
much attention as those grown from seed. Mendel has opened the door
to intimate familiarity with some of the fundamental phenomena of
hybridization, and, despite the difficult and complex literature the
professionals are imposing on the art, chiefly discussions of methods
and disputations about principles, the layman finds Mendelian laws easy
to put in practice; and peach-breeding is certain to go forward in
leaps and bounds as the irresistible fascination of the subject seizes
peach-growers.

Meanwhile, as a foundation for future work, it becomes highly important
to know how the varieties we have came into existence. The known
histories of the many diverse kinds of peaches show that this fruit
has been improved almost wholly through new varieties by chance
hybridization--self-fertilized seed, selection and mutations are almost
negligible factors. The following are the data: No case is recorded
in _The Peaches of New York_ of a variety known to have come from a
self-fertilized seed. The seed parent is given for 214 varieties; the
seed and pollen parents of 37 varieties. But 4 varieties are reported
to have come from bud-mutations. Of chance seedlings, sorts from seed
with neither parent known, there are 161. The origins of 1765 of the
varieties described in _The Peaches of New York_ are unknown. The total
number of peaches described is 2181.




CHAPTER IV

PEACH-GROWING IN NEW YORK


The history of the peach, whether narrative or natural, shows that this
fruit succeeds commercially only in restricted areas under special soil
and climatic conditions. In the United States, as we have seen, the
peach-industry has sprung up in a dozen or more distinct geographical
regions, three of which are in New York. In discussing peach-growing in
New York we must, first, determine the boundaries of its peach-regions;
second, show the relative importance of the peach-industry in each;
and, third, note the determinants that make favored parts of the State
peach-regions.

The three main peach-areas in New York are the Hudson River Valley,
the shore of Lake Ontario and the lands surrounding the Finger Lakes.
The relative importance of these areas is shown by the number of trees
in the regions. More than half of the peach-trees in New York are
along the south shore of Lake Ontario, the total number in bearing
for the region in 1909 being 1,271,514. The two counties of the State
leading in number of trees are in this belt, Niagara with 591,350
and Monroe with 339,375, while of the other three in the belt there
are 166,584 in Wayne, 157,934 in Orleans and 16,271 in Oswego. The
Hudson River Valley district is second in importance, with a total of
679,662 trees, of which Ulster County, ranking third in the State, has
313,971, and Orange, with fourth rank, has 212,879, while Dutchess has
63,741, Columbia 51,818, Rockland 21,081 and Westchester 16,172. The
Finger Lakes region, with a much smaller area of suitable land, has
but 322,179 trees, of which Seneca County has 81,440, Ontario 56,495,
Schuyler 51,993, Yates 48,350, Tompkins 34,090 and Livingston, a little
to the west of this region proper, 19,251.

Long Island, once the seat of a considerable peach-industry, now has
but 34,348 trees, 30,333 in Suffolk County and 4,015 in Nassau. There
is a large area on the shore of Lake Erie suitable for peaches but land
here is mainly planted with grapes; yet Chautauqua County has 32,377
and Erie 10,987 trees. Beside these main and subsidiary peach-regions
there are many localities in which peaches are grown for local markets
or home use. Peach statistics for the State emphasize strikingly the
fact that the peach is a specialist's crop and that it can be grown
only in special environments. Thus, compare the figures given for
peach-growing counties with these: In two counties in New York there
is not a peach-tree; in six counties there are less than twenty-five
trees each; in twenty-two counties there are fewer than five hundred
trees or less than five acres in any one; of the sixty-one counties
in the State, only twenty-four average more than one hundred acres
planted to peaches and but six have more than a thousand acres. There
are still, however, acres beyond calculation, fecund for peaches, many
lying fallow, upon which peaches can be grown when the markets warrant.

The acreage for the State and its peach-regions may be determined,
approximately, by dividing the number of trees by 100. In 1909 there
were 2,457,187 bearing trees and 2,216,907 trees not of bearing age,
a total of 4,674,094 trees covering 46,740 acres in the State. At
this writing, 1916, the acreage is larger. In 1909, along the Ontario
Shore there were 12,715 acres planted to bearing peaches; in the
Hudson Valley, 6,796; about the Finger Lakes, 3,221; on Long Island,
343; on the shores of Lake Erie, 433. These figures for districts
cover bearing trees only, but holding the proportion the same for the
districts as for the State, the total acreage for each district should
be doubled for 1909 and, we are sure, much more than doubled for 1916.
The statement that the number of bearing trees has doubled in the past
five years is supported by figures furnished me by F. S. Welsh,[254]
Agriculturist of the New York Central Railroad Company. The New York
Central handles at least 95 per centum of the peaches grown in New
York and shipped to the markets; in 1910 this railroad handled 1,341
carloads of peaches, 4,419 carloads in 1915.

New York ranks third among the states of the Union in the production
of peaches, the value of the crop being but a little less than that
of Georgia though only about half as much as that of California. The
number of bearing trees and the yield in bushels of fruit are given in
the census report of 1910 so that the average production per bearing
tree in the several peach-belts of the country may be computed,
throwing light on the condition of the orchards in the different
regions. California leads with an average production of 37.8 quarts per
tree; New York follows with 22.6 quarts; after which comes Michigan
with 18.5; Pennsylvania, 13.7; New Jersey, 11.6; Ohio, 10.5; Georgia,
7.7; and Delaware, which must have had an off year in 1909, but 5
quarts.

Perhaps it is worth while putting on record an opinion as to the
status of peach-growing in the State at present, 1916. The acreage
is certainly the greatest yet planted in the State--as has been said
nearly or quite double the number of trees bearing in 1909 which
the last census gives as 1,014,110. Certainly, too, orchards were
never as well cared for as now. Yet the percentage of unprofitable
peach-orchards in the State is high--at least fifty per centum--for
which several causes can be named; as, competition and over-production
with consequent low prices, poor distribution, a series of seasons with
much winter-killing, and a succession of cold, wet springs. These are
episodes in the industry hard to overcome. Of the avoidable causes of
the present high percentage of unprofitable orchards perhaps the most
common is the attempt to do too much whereby many eventually come to
bankruptcy. Another reason for the many unprofitable orchards of the
present is that the peach is a favorite fruit for beginners. Profits in
peach-growing are often luring, the peach is an attractive fruit, it
seems easy to grow and the fruit-grower plants, to learn by experience
that peach-growing is not, as so often pictured, a pleasant and
profitable avocation but a most exacting vocation.

Why is the peach so localistic? In particular, what has set the bounds
of the three restricted peach-areas in New York? To some extent, of
course, man-governed agencies have determined where peaches may or may
not be grown in the State. Peaches must move quickly and the carriers
must not dip too deeply in the grower's pockets; therefore markets must
not be too distant and transportation must be cheap and efficient.
Again, peach-growing is a fine art and becomes thus a specialist's
business that must be learned in the peach-orchard; therefore, even if
soil and climate be favorable, the industry lags if it lacks leaders
to teach and to set the pace in orcharding. But, outranking by far
the agencies depending on man, are natural conditions, two of which,
climate and soil, predetermined where peach-industries were to stand in
New York.


CLIMATE

When are plant and climate truly congenial? Perhaps the best test is
the degree to which the plant spontaneously accommodates itself to all
climatic conditions. Thus, the peach is ideally suited to climates
in which it maintains itself without the aid of man. The peach is
perfectly at home, then, in America only where it runs wild,--in parts
of the South. In the North, East and the far West, peaches seldom
grow spontaneously; and the cold of winter, the frosts of spring
and the drouths of summer, in these regions, yearly remind us that
notwithstanding the generations the tree has been grown in America it
is still a stranger in a foreign country--an exotic from warm and
sunlit Mid-Asia. Yet with a little help from man the peach takes kindly
to many climates in which it does not grow spontaneously. Under what
climatic conditions does the peach grow spontaneously? And under what
climatic conditions can the peach be grown with the aid of man as a
commercial success? These questions can be best answered by discussing
the two constituents of climate, temperature and rainfall, in relation
to the peach.

Of the several phases of temperature only extremes in cold are
determinants in peach-growing in New York. The peach stands for all
that is tender and effeminate in a fruit-tree and fares so ill in
winter's cold that the limits of peach-culture are set in all northern
states by the winter climate. The undomesticated peach is at the mercy
of the winter wherever the temperature falls below zero and seldom
grows spontaneously where the mercury drops even to this point. By
selecting hardy varieties and following careful cultural methods,
however, peaches may be grown profitably in climates where it is
occasionally as cold as ten degrees below zero. An isothermal line
passing through points in New York where the thermometer marks -10°
in an occasional winter sets the limits of peach-growing in New York.
The red line in the accompanying map shows the territory in which
peach-growing is reasonably safe in New York while the green line shows
the outside limits of the industry as determined by cold.

Even in the favored peach-regions of New York, winter-injury is a
matter of vital importance to the peach-industry and growers seek means
to avoid or check it. The problem is not an insurmountable one, for
here and there are orchards and varieties which suffer little injury
though possibly adjoining others in which trees or buds are wholly or
partially killed. There must be reasons for the injury in the one and
not in the other. These, the New York Agricultural Experiment Station
made an attempt to discover a few years ago in letters addressed to the
peach-growers of the State.[255] From the information received, and
that gained by observation, we may lay down the following propositions
regarding hardiness of the peach in New York.

First.--The soil has much influence on hardiness. The peach must have
a warm, dry soil to secure the hardiness inherent in the species.
Only in such a soil can trees make a strong, firm, well-matured
growth, which is conducive to hardiness. Bottom-heat seems especially
necessary to secure a growth that will withstand cold and for this
reason gravelly and stony soils, since they hold heat well, make good
peach-lands. So, too, a gravelly subsoil seems to provide the proper
root-environment for the peach-tree and if this be present it matters
little, so far as hardiness is concerned, whether it be overlaid with
sand, gravel, loam, a light clay or combinations of these.

[Illustration: MAP OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK]

Second.--The amount of moisture in the soil in the winter affects the
hardiness of the peach. Either extreme of moisture, excessive wetness
or excessive dryness, gives favorable conditions for winter-killing. A
wet soil freezes deeply and trees standing in it are sappy throughout
the winter. Cold, alternating with warm weather, or accompanied with
dry winds, causes excessive evaporation from trees and if the soil be
so dry as not to furnish moisture to replace the water evaporated,
winter-injury ensues. When twigs and buds shrivel in winter, whether
from lack of water or lack of maturity, winter-injury almost invariably
follows.

Third.--Fertilizers may have a helpful or a harmful effect as regards
hardiness of tree. When fertilizers cause a heavy, rank, soft growth,
they undoubtedly make the trees more susceptible to winter-injury. On
the other hand, trees suffer as much or more from cold if underfed
than if overfed. Nothing is more certain than that vigorous growth in
early summer can be made of great service in counteracting cold and
that half-starved trees, or those which have been allowed to bear too
heavily, suffer most from freezing.

Fourth.--Cover-crops protect trees from cold. Case after case can be
cited of orchards with cover-crops surviving a cold winter when nearby
orchards without the muffler of vegetation, leaves and snow were
killed. Possibly the cover-crop is the most effective treatment of the
peach-orchard to avoid winter-killing, acting as a cover to protect
the roots from cold, causing the trees to ripen their wood quickly and
thoroughly and assisting in regulating the supply of moisture.

Fifth.--Low-headed trees suffer less in both trunks and branches from
winter-injury than high-headed trees. Buds, however, often survive on
the higher branches and not on the lower ones. The low-headed trees
are less injured probably because the wood loses less moisture by
the evaporation from the effects of winds than do high-headed trees;
because the trunk at least is better protected from the sun and hence
suffers less from sunscald, one of the effects of freezing and thawing;
and because, for some reason or other, low-headed trees seem to be
more vigorous than high-headed trees.

Sixth.--Wind-breaks furnish small protection against cold to either
trees or buds. The value of a wind-break depends largely upon the
topography of the land. A wind-break so planted as wholly to check
currents of air is detrimental so far as cold is concerned; so planted
as to deflect the current of air they may become of value in keeping
off frosts. More often than not, however, they seriously check
atmospheric drainage and the damage by frost is greater.

Seventh.--Young peach-trees suffer more than old trees, probably
because the young trees do not mature their wood as well as the older
ones. There are, however, many exceptions to the statement that young
trees are less hardy to cold than old ones. Old trees are often forced
to produce large quantities of new wood susceptible to winter-killing,
while, on the other hand, the superabundant growth of young trees can
be kept down by orchard-treatment. Old trees possessing low vitality
are less hardy than vigorous, young trees. Thus, trees suffering from
the ravages of borers, leaf-curl or other fungus troubles suffer most
from cold. While young trees are more susceptible to freezing than
old ones, yet they are much more likely to recover, if recovery be
possible, and their return to a normal condition is more rapid.

Eighth.--What degree of cold will kill peach-trees? Twenty degrees
below zero under the best of conditions kills the peach. Depending upon
the condition in which the trees begin the winter, however, the trees
may be killed by any temperature between zero and -20°. The following
are the conditions unfavorable to withstanding cold, in about the order
of importance: Immaturity of wood; lack of protection of roots by snow
or cover-crop; poor drainage; overbearing in the preceding year; lack
of vitality from ravages of insects, or fungi or from infertility of
soil; susceptibility of variety to cold.

Ninth.--What degree of cold will kill peach-buds? Much depends upon
the condition of the buds. Fifteen degrees below zero seems to be the
limit that peach-buds can stand even when all conditions are favorable.
The chief factors influencing tenderness of buds are maturity of buds,
variety, and the time at which buds finish their resting period.

Tenth.--Small-growing varieties with compact heads are hardier than the
free-growing sorts with large heads. The following varieties are named
as compact in growth and hence hardier than the average: Chili, Crosby,
Gold Drop, Barnard, Kalamazoo, Triumph, Wager and Fitzgerald.

Eleventh.--In New York the varieties Crosby, Chili, Stevens, Gold Drop
and Elberta are named as most hardy in wood. As most tender in wood
Early Crawford, Late Crawford, Chairs, St. John and Niagara are named.
Crosby, Chili, Triumph, Gold Drop, Stevens and Kalamazoo are most hardy
in bud. Early Crawford, Late Crawford, Chairs, Reeves and Elberta are
most tender in bud.

The average date at which the last killing frost occurs in the spring
also determines the limit in latitude or altitude at which the peach
can be grown. Even in the favored peach-regions of New York, records
bring out the fact that killing frosts must be expected occasionally to
destroy the peach-crop and there are few years indeed in which frost
does not take heavy toll in the State as a whole. In the twenty-five
year period beginning with 1881 and ending with 1905, the peach-crop
was destroyed or seriously injured over a large part of New York in
thirteen seasons.[256] Little or nothing is done in New York to protect
the peach from frosts. Truth is, not much can be done. Whitewashing
trees delays blooming time and in some seasons might prevent injury
from late frosts but it is too uncertain and too costly to be worth
putting in practice. Wind-breaks as often favor the frost as the tree.
Smudging is too expensive for the extensive system of peach-orcharding
practiced in the East. Failure due to frost may be expected, then, when
the commonly recognized precautions in selecting frost-proof sites are
not recognized.

The limits of peach-culture in New York are also determined by early
fall frosts and by the length of the growing season, though both are
less important than the winter-climate and late frosts in the spring.
The peach-grower must be able to synchronize three of these phases of
climate, spring frosts, fall frosts and length of summer season, with
the blooming and ripening of peaches,--to do which he must have weather
data and the dates of blooming and ripening of varieties of peaches.
The necessary data as to the average dates of spring and fall frosts
and the length of the growing season can be obtained from the nearest
local weather bureau and in the accompanying table the blooming and
ripening seasons of 181 varieties of peaches grown at the New York
Agricultural Experiment Station are given for the years 1910 to 1914.
Blooming and ripening dates vary in the several peach-regions in the
State so that to make use of the data from this Station consideration
must be given to the latitude, altitude and local environment of the
peach-orchard.

The latitude of the Smith Astronomical Observatory, a quarter of a
mile from the Station orchards, is 42° 52' 46.2"; the altitude of the
orchards is from five hundred to five hundred and twenty-five feet
above the sea level. The soil is a loamy but rather cold clay; the
orchards lie about a mile west of Seneca Lake, a body of water forty
miles in length and from one to three and one-half miles in width and
more than six hundred feet deep. The lake has frozen over but a few
times since the region was settled, over a hundred years ago, and has a
very beneficial influence on the adjacent country in lessening the cold
of winter and the heat of summer and in preventing early blooming.

The blooming period is that of full bloom. The data were taken from
trees grown under normal conditions as to pruning, distance apart, and
as to all other factors which might influence the blooming period.
There is a variation of several days between the time of full bloom of
the different varieties of peaches. These differences can be utilized
in selecting sorts to avoid injury from frost.

          BLOOMING PERIODS AND SEASON OF RIPENING OF PEACH-VARIETIES
  =========================================================================
                 |     Blooming period        |   Season of ripening
                 |----------------------------+----------------------------
                 |Very |Early| Mid- |Late|Very|Very |Early| Mid- |Late|Very
                 |early|     |season|    |late|early|     |season|    |late
  ---------------+-----+-----+------+----+----+-----+-----+------+----+----
  Abundance      |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Admiral Dewey  |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |  *  |      |    |
  Ailsworth      |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Albright Cling |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Alexander      |     |  *  |      |    |    |  *  |     |      |    |
  Alton          |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Amelia         |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Ameliaberta    |     |     |      | *  |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Arkansas       |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |  *  |      |    |
  Arp            |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |  *  |      |    |
  Athens         |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Augbert        |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Banner         |     |     |      | *  |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Barber         |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Beatrice       |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |  *  |      |    |
  Belle          |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Bequette Free  |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |

  BLOOMING PERIODS AND SEASON OF RIPENING OF PEACH-VARIETIES--_Continued_
  =========================================================================
                 |     Blooming period        |   Season of ripening
                 |----------------------------+----------------------------
                 |Very |Early| Mid- |Late|Very|Very |Early| Mid- |Late|Very
                 |early|     |season|    |late|early|     |season|    |late
  ---------------+-----+-----+------+----+----+-----+-----+------+----+----
  Berenice       |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Bilyeu         |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |     |      |    |  *
  Bishop         |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Blood Cling    |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |    |  *
  Blood Leaf     |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |    |  *
  Bokhara        |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Bonanza        |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |    |  *
  Brandywine     |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Bray Rareripe  |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |    |  *
  Brigdon        |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Briggs         |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |  *  |      |    |
  Burke          |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Butler Late    |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Buttram        |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Canada         |     |     |  *   |    |    |  *  |     |      |    |
  Capps          |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Captain Ede    |     |     |      |    |  * |     |     |  *   |    |
  Carman         |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |  *  |      |    |
  Champion       |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Chairs         |     |     |      |  * |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Chili          |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Chinese Cling  |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Chinese Free   |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Christiana     |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Clarissa       |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Clifton Park   |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |  *  |      |    |
  Conkling       |     |     |      |  * |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Connecticut    |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Connet         |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |  *  |      |    |
  Coolidge       |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Crosby         |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Crothers       |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Davidson       |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |  *  |      |    |
  Delaware       |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Denton         |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Dr. Burton     |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Dulce          |     |     |      |  * |    |     |     |      |    |  *
  Early Charlotte|     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Early Crawford |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Early Michigan |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Early York     |     |     |      |    |  * |     |     |  *   |    |
  Edgemont       |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Elberta        |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Emma           |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Engle          |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Eureka         |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Family Favorite|     |  *  |      |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Fitzgerald     |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Ford Late      |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |     |      |  * |

  BLOOMING PERIODS AND SEASON OF RIPENING OF PEACH-VARIETIES--_Continued_
  =========================================================================
                 |     Blooming period        |   Season of ripening
                 |----------------------------+----------------------------
                 |Very |Early| Mid- |Late|Very|Very |Early| Mid- |Late|Very
                 |early|     |season|    |late|early|     |season|    |late
  ---------------+-----+-----+------+----+----+-----+-----+------+----+----
  Foster         |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Fox            |     |     |      |  * |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Frances        |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Frederica      |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Geary          |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |    |  *
  General Lee    |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  George IV      |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Gold Drop      |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Gold Dust      |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Gold Mine      |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Gordon         |     |     |      |  * |    |     |     |      |    |  *
  Governor Garland     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Governor Hogg  |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |  *  |      |    |
  Greensboro     |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |  *  |      |    |
  Guinn          |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Hale Early     |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |  *  |      |    |
  Heath Cling    |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |    |  *
  Heath Free     |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Hiley          |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Honest John    |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Horton River   |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Hynds Yellow   |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Hynes          |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |  *  |      |    |
  Illinois       |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Ingold         |     |     |      |  * |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Iron Mountain  |     |     |      |  * |    |     |     |      |    |  *
  Jackson        |     |     |      |  * |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Jennie Worthen |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Jennings       |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Kalamazoo      |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Klondike       |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Lamont         |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Large York     |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Late Crawford  |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Late Elberta   |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Late Rareripe  |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Levy           |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |    |  *
  Lodge          |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Lola           |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Lord Palmerston|     |  *  |      |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Lorentz        |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |    |  *
  McCollister    |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  McKay Late     |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |    |  *
  Mamie Ross     |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Markham        |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Mathews        |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  May Lee        |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |  *  |      |    |
  Maule Early    |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |  *  |      |    |
  Millhiser      |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |    |  *

  BLOOMING PERIODS AND SEASON OF RIPENING OF PEACH-VARIETIES--_Continued_
  ===============================================================================
                       |     Blooming period        |   Season of ripening
                       |----------------------------+----------------------------
                       |Very |Early| Mid- |Late|Very|Very |Early| Mid- |Late|Very
                       |early|     |season|    |late|early|     |season|    |late
  ---------------------+-----+-----+------+----+----+-----+-----+------+----+----
  Miner Wonder         |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Moore Favorite       |     |     |      |  * |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Morris White         |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Mountain Rose        |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Munson Free          |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Niagara              |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Northboro            |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Oldmixon Cling       |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Oldmixon Free        |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Opulent              |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Oriole               |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Orleans              |     |     |      |  * |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Parson Early         |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Pearce Yellow        |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Pearson              |  *  |     |      |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Perfection           |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Philip Horton        |     |     |      |    |  * |     |     |      |    |  *
  Picquet              |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |    |  *
  Potter               |     |     |      |  * |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Prolific             |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Ray                  |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Red Bird             |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |  *  |      |    |
  Red Bird Cling       |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |  *  |      |    |
  Red Cheek Melocoton  |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Reeves               |     |     |      |  * |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Rivers               |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |  *  |      |    |
  Rudings Late         |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Russell              |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  St. John             |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |  *  |      |    |
  Salwey               |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |    |  *
  Schumaker            |     |  *  |      |    |    |  *  |     |      |    |
  Shipley Late         |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Simmons              |     |     |      |    |  * |     |     |      |    |  *
  Slappey              |     |     |      |    |  * |     |     |      |  * |
  Smock                |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |    |  *
  Sneed                |     |     |  *   |    |    |  *  |     |      |    |
  Steadly              |     |     |      |  * |    |     |     |      |    |  *
  Strout               |     |  *  |      |    |    |  *  |     |      |    |
  Stump                |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Summer Snow          |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Surpasse             |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Surprise             |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Susquehanna          |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Switzerland          |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Thurber              |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Tiebout              |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Tillotson            |     |     |      |  * |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Triumph              |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |  *  |      |    |
  Troth                |     |  *  |      |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |

  BLOOMING PERIODS AND SEASON OF RIPENING OF PEACH-VARIETIES--_Continued_
  =========================================================================
                 |     Blooming period        |   Season of ripening
                 |----------------------------+----------------------------
                 |Very |Early| Mid- |Late|Very|Very |Early| Mid- |Late|Very
                 |early|     |season|    |late|early|     |season|    |late
  ---------------+-----+-----+------+----+----+-----+-----+------+----+----
  Victor         |     |  *  |      |    |    |  *  |     |      |    |
  Waddell        |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Wager          |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Walker         |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Ward           |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Waterloo       |     |     |  *   |    |    |  *  |     |      |    |
  Weaver         |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |    |  *
  Wheatland      |     |     |      |  * |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Wilkins        |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Willard        |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Willett        |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Williams       |     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |      |    |  *
  Wonderful      |     |     |      |  * |    |     |     |      |    |  *
  Worlds Fair    |     |     |      |  * |    |  *  |     |      |    |
  Worrell        |     |     |      |  * |    |     |     |      |  * |
  Yellow Rareripe|     |     |  *   |    |    |     |     |  *   |    |
  Yellow Swan    |     |     |      |  * |    |     |  *  |      |    |
  =========================================================================

The peach seldom suffers from hot weather in New York. The fruit is
sometimes injured in the full blaze of the sun but the foliage usually
furnishes ample protection against such injury. On the other hand, for
a finely finished product the peach must have an unclouded sun and
ample air, these conditions giving high color and full flavor.

The peach requires less moisture than most other fruits--its original
home was on the desert's edge in Asia. In New York the rainfall is
usually quite sufficient in all peach-regions for this crop, the
exception being, possibly, in the southern part of the Central Lakes
region, where, in the lands adapted to the peach, the soil is often
thin and drought, season after season, lays heavily on the land. The
peach in New York more often suffers from too much rain than too
little. Cold, wet weather in blooming time is the fruit-grower's vernal
bane in this State and rain not infrequently prevents a set of peaches
even in localities where the spring rainfall is light. Monthly and
seasonal "means" of precipitation, especially of the month of May,
are of considerable importance in determining the desirability of a
locality for peaches.

There are several other phases of climate usually of but local
application which sometimes become of vital importance to the
peach-grower and must receive attention in selecting an orchard-site.
The direction, force and frequency of prevailing winds during the
blooming and ripening periods; the liability to hail storms; the amount
of cloudiness in the summer months; the nature and degree of seasonal
variations; the degree of humidity of the atmosphere as related to
fungus diseases, especially the dreaded brown-rot; and the frequency of
drouths are all problems to be solved before planting the peach.


SOILS FOR PEACHES

After climate, soil has been the next most potent natural influence
in determining the location of the peach-regions of the State and of
individual orchards in the several regions. The peach, of all fruits,
is most particular as to soils; though, and this seems not generally
understood, the physical condition of the land is quite as important as
the kind of soil. That is, the peach grows well on a rather wide range
of soils if the land be well drained, well aerated and if it hold heat.
All subsequent treatment fails, whatever the soil, if the root-run be
impeded by water or lack of air and if there be not the stimulus of
considerable bottom-heat. These physical conditions modify greatly what
is to be said in the next paragraph in regard to the kind of soil.

In New York the peach thrives best on a light, free-working sandy or
gravelly loam but there are many good peach-orchards in gravelly and
stony clays--gravel and stone furnishing drainage and aeration and
holding heat. Perhaps, in this State, the light types of soil are too
often chosen on the theory that the peach will grow on any light, sandy
soil. Not so, for the peach will not grow on wind-blown, water-washed
sands; on sand banks, in sand pits, on quicksands, on old sandbars or
on pure quartz sands, though it is to be found planted on all of these.
Nor will the peach flourish on sandy soils at all unless there be a
fair admixture of clay and decomposed vegetable matter and the whole
underlain at a depth of not more than three or four feet with a clay
subsoil or stone which must have natural drainage. The clay subsoil
must not come nearer to the surface than ten or twelve inches while bed
rock ought not, at the very least, be nearer than twenty inches. So
qualified, sandy soils are ideal soils for peaches in New York. Some
of the best peach-lands in the State are exceedingly stony, the stones
being no detriment except in making the land difficult to till.

The peach is conspicuous among fruits for its ability to nourish itself
where the food supply is meagre--indeed it is the richest resource of
fruit-growers on soils deficient in the most important elements of
plant-food. This does not mean that peach-soils are cheap soils. Few
other crops thrive on peach-soils, which make them of little value
except for this fruit, but good peach-soils are so scarce that once
their adaptabilities are discovered they are seldom cheap. Peach-soils,
as a rule, are but moderately fertile. When too fertile, especially
when rich in nitrogen, the foliage is dense, the wood-growth is great,
the season's wood does not mature, the set of fruit is small, and the
peaches lack size, color and flavor. But if not rich, never poor. On
a good peach-soil the trees should make a relatively small, compact
growth of firm wood which each season ripens thoroughly; and, barring
accidents, they should be annually fruitful of large, highly-colored,
well-flavored, properly-shaped peaches covered with sparse and short
pubescence. The fertilization of peach-soils is to be considered in a
separate topic.

We have been generalizing as to the adaptabilities of peaches to soils.
Peach-growing, through keen competition and the great pleasure that a
finely finished product gives the grower, has become a fine art. Now,
in the refinement of the industry, generalizations as to peach-soils
are not sufficient. Growers must find out what particular varieties
grow best in their particular soil. To be sure, there are cosmopolitan
varieties, Elberta for example, which thrive in a diversity of soils,
but, for most part, each distinct variety or type of varieties has
special soil preferences the discovery of which has often made a
man a successful peach-grower. The peculiarities which adapt a soil
to a variety are not analyzable but appear to peach-growers through
intuition or experiment.

Some fruits are made to grow in uncongenial soils by working them
on stocks adapted to the soil. Thus, the peach may be worked on
plum-stocks for heavy, clay soils. Little, however, has been done in
forcing the peach to adapt itself to a soil by consorting varieties and
stocks. There is no doubt, however, but that much may be done when the
adaptabilities of cions to stocks and stocks to soil are better known.


LOCATIONS AND SITES FOR PEACH-ORCHARDS

That peach-growing is not capable of equal development in all of
the agricultural regions of the country and State appears in page
after page of the history of this fruit. Climate and soil, as
we have tried to show, are the great determinants of the large
geographical peach-areas but beside these there are several other
factors influencing the formation of peach-growing communities; as,
transportation facilities, markets, labor, ability to make and dispose
of by-products, selling organizations, local climate and so on. The
economic factors just mentioned, as they apply to the establishment
of peach-belts, have received sufficient notice in the history of
the peach-industry in the United States, but these, together with
several natural factors, need a few words in their local application
to individual plantations under the head of locations and sites for
peach-orchards--the location having to do with the general surroundings
and the site with the particular piece of land to be planted.

The dominant considerations in placing commercial peach-orchards in
the peach-zones in New York seem now to be economic ones. Natural
conditions are so favorable in any of the recognized peach-districts
of the State and obstacles so easily overcome by those who possess
common knowledge of peach-growing, that a crop comes almost as a gift
from nature. Natural advantages are more common than man-made ones;
so that suitable locations are mostly to be sought for in the centers
of peach-growing near a shipping point where the haul is short, the
freight service prompt, regular, efficient, with low freight rates and
refrigerator service, where labor is abundant, and, lastly and very
important, where the markets are so placed that they are not controlled
by growers in regions more advantageously situated.

Advantages offered by local markets now determine the placing of a good
many peach-orchards in New York. A location where there is a good local
market and at the same time ample facilities for shipping to distant
markets is ideal, for it enables the grower to dispose of over-ripe and
second-rate peaches that otherwise go to the dump. The local consumer,
however, usually suffers. Prosperous towns and cities have added much
to the prosperity of nearby peach-districts in this State but generally
these local markets have not received the attention from growers they
deserve. The product sent to the local markets is usually much poorer
than that shipped to a distance. On the other hand, growers maintain
that customers in towns in the peach-belts will not pay for good fruit.

Nowhere are the favorable influences of water more admirably
illustrated than in the peach-orchards of New York, all of the
peach-districts being bounded on one or more sides by bodies of water.
The great majority of the orchards are planted on the shores of one of
the two Great Lakes, slope toward one of the several Finger Lakes, or
are near flowing water in the Hudson. The equalizing effects of bodies
of water on temperature--warmer winters and cooler summers--and the
effects of the air-currents from bodies of water are so well known
that comment is not necessary. It is worth while noting, however, the
distance to which the benign influences of water are felt in the New
York peach-districts. In the Hudson Valley the peach can be grown only
a-mile or two from the river with safety from frosts and freezes. With
few exceptions, the peach-orchards about the Central Lakes overlook the
water. On the Great Lakes peach-plantations are found from one to six
or eight miles from the water, depending upon the height of the land,
and the amount and direction of the slope.

Usually the peach-plantations are some distance above the lakes or
river, generally from one hundred to three hundred feet. When the
altitude is much higher, immunity from frost and winter freezes ceases,
probably because the atmosphere is rarer and no doubt drier so that
heat radiates from the land rapidly inducing frostiness rather than
frostlessness. As the height increases, too, the sweep of the wind
increases. But still, one is often surprised to find vigorous orchards
perched high above the water, the sport of every wind, so that altitude
in peach-growing must be determined by experiment.

The site, as we choose to consider it, is the situation with
especial regard to the particular plot of ground set aside for the
peach-orchard--altitude, soil, slope, exposure, local climate and all
of the natural factors which favor peach-growing. All these have been
touched upon in their relation to peach-districts and locations within
the districts but we need to particularize a little more closely to
show how some of these factors affect individual orchards.

The best peach-orchards in New York are invariably higher than the
surrounding country, such orchards having the two great advantages of
soil-drainage and atmospheric drainage. Rolling land seems not to be at
all essential, for many splendid plantations are on flat lands which,
however, in all cases have an elevation on one or more boundaries
above the surrounding country. The more pronounced the elevation,
within limits, the better, though sharp declines of a few feet, ten
or fifteen, serve for small orchards as do gentle slopes of slightly
higher elevation. Ideal spots where the peach never fails are found in
bits of tillable land, usually too small for large commercial ventures,
in the rough and steep gulches running down from the highlands to the
lakes, occasionally on the Ontario and Erie shores, but more often
in the more broken country about the Finger Lakes. In such cases the
rigors of seasons are seldom felt. We do not recall seeing a single
successful peach-orchard in the State shut in on all sides by higher
land--frosts and freezes would soon play havoc in such a situation.

The exposure of a peach-plantation is, without doubt, a matter of some
importance in choosing a site but the value of particular exposures to
avoid frosts and secure early, late, or highly colored fruits has been
greatly over-emphasized by horticultural writers if New York orchards
be taken as criteria. The theory is most plausible. It runs, in brief:
Northward slopes are best for peaches in frosty regions since on such
slopes plants remain dormant longest thereby often escaping spring
frosts. Southward slopes should be selected for early varieties, the
sun and warmth of such an exposure supposedly hastening the ripening
time. Now the facts are, as we observe them, the peach blossoms with
the first burst of spring warmth whether the slope face north or south;
and whether north or south makes little difference in ripening because
the intense heat of our New York summers submerges slight differences
appearing early in the season because of exposure. About all that shows
in the matter of exposure for peach-orchards, in this State is that the
best slopes are toward the water to secure the effects that dictate the
location of orchards near water.

One comes across many peach-orchards in New York in the shelter of
high hills or heavy forests for which the trees usually show gratitude
in vigor and fruitfulness, provided hill or wood does not shade the
orchard too much. Hills and woods provide desirable shelter only when
so situated as to protect against winter winds and summer storms. A
most remarkable example of winter protection by a forest was to be
seen a few years ago on the somewhat noted fruit-farm of Mr. Grant
Hitchings near South Onondaga where peaches are at the limit as regards
temperature. Here was a peach-orchard half of which was terribly
injured by winter-killing and the other half, protected by a forest a
quarter-mile away, was wholly unhurt. Yet windbreaks have seldom proved
satisfactory, usually developing as many or more disadvantages than
advantages.


STOCKS AND THE PROPAGATION OF PEACHES

The peach-tree, in common with all other fruit-trees, is a consort of
two individuals--a named variety budded on an unnamed seedling. So
far, the industry has been carried on with little or no regard to the
effects the seedling may have on the variety to which it is budded,
yet there can be no doubt but that the fruiting top is influenced by
the stock upon which it is worked. The present nursery practice is to
buy peach-pits, whatsoever they may be, at the lowest price, sow them
in nursery rows and at the proper time bud to named varieties. Time
was, in the East at least, when the pits came from the run-wild peaches
of the southern states from which grew vigorous, healthy and fairly
uniform seedlings but it is to be feared that most of the pits, the
country over, now come from the canneries and from varieties so diverse
in vigor, habit and season that the resulting seedlings are variable
and must make variable the trees grown upon them. It is greatly to
be regretted that the practice of growing peach stock from southern
wild seed has been departed from though even a better practice might
be to grow trees from some vigorous variety or, possibly, a different
species, as _Prunus davidiana_, which is now largely used in China.

_Prunus davidiana_ has, as we have stated in discussing the species,
been tried very widely in the United States and seems to have many
excellent qualities for a stock. The seedlings are vigorous, healthy,
hardy, bud readily and the seeds keep well and sprout very uniformly so
that usually there is a good stand. Perhaps the character that commends
it most highly at present, however, is the hardiness of the species.
It is proving hardy in colder regions than those where the peach is
now a commercial crop, so that, wherever this fruit as now grown is at
the mercy of the winter, _Prunus davidiana_ is a promising substitute
for the hit-and-miss stocks now used. The drawbacks to the use of
the Chinese species are that it does not bear fruits of any value
whatsoever so that the crop would have to be grown for the pits alone
and, because of very early blossoming, the trees bear only in most
favored situations as regards spring frosts.

Peach-on-peach is now the rule in eastern America but in Europe, and to
a lesser extent on the Pacific slope, several other species are used.
Thus, the hard-shelled Sweet Almond has long been used in Europe and
is found to make a hardy, strong stock in dry soils in California. The
Damson and St. Julian plums have been used with varying satisfaction in
moist and heavy soils in America; and in Europe, these, with the Muscle
and Pear plums, are common stocks for the peach. Peaches are dwarfed
somewhat by all plum-stocks. The Myrobalan plum, very commonly used for
nearly all cultivated plums, was at one time recommended for the peach
but turned out to be very unsatisfactory and is now practically never
used. The nectarine, Peento and Honey peaches are budded upon seedling
peaches.

A stock greatly desired in peach-growing is one that will dwarf the
tree sufficiently so that winter-protection for buds and wood is
practicable. The late E. S. Goff of Wisconsin tried for some years
to find such a stock. He reports[257] working several hundred buds
on the dwarf Flowering-Almond without a single union. Better success
attended efforts with the peach on the dwarf Sand Cherry, _Prunus
besseyii_, of the Rocky Mountains. Of the results, as he dismisses the
flowering-almond, he says:

"I next tried a form of the Sand Cherry, grown from pits procured in
western Iowa. This shrub is quite dwarf, attaining a height of only two
or three feet. With this stock I have been more successful. I inserted
a few buds in it in 1893, and while I had less expectation of success
than with the Flowering Almond, I succeeded much better. The Peach
grew vigorously on this stock, and by the second year had attained the
height of about five feet. The past season, although the best growing
season we have had for some years, the Peach-trees on this stock have
scarcely increased in height. They have branched rather thickly, and
at present are well filled with flower-buds, from which I infer that
they will probably not grow larger than they now are. At this height
the trees are readily protected by digging away sufficient earth from
the roots, so that the trunk may be bent down readily, when the whole
is covered with earth. The trees blossomed the past spring and set some
fruit, though the fruit failed to mature."

In the same report, Professor Goff mentions trying _Prunus subcordata_
and a dwarf form of _Prunus maritima_ as stocks for the peach but
with what success does not appear. Dwarf stocks for peaches offer an
invitation to experiment which it is hoped some one will accept. Such
an experiment requires little more than land, time and material, for
it is one of those cases in which nothing succeeds like success and
nothing fails like failure so that he who runs would be able to read.

Tied up with stocks is another problem. Much is being said about the
necessity of selecting buds from trees having certain characters best
developed--as vigor or productiveness; large, handsome or well-flavored
fruits; or immunity to some disease. As yet there is no body of facts
to substantiate the claims of those who maintain that fruits can be
improved by bud-selection nor does present knowledge suggest that such
a procedure is a means of fruit-improvement. Quite to the contrary
the histories of varieties of peaches, as they may be read in this
text, suggest that, "Like begets like," while in the light of science
a plant propagated by buds is essentially complete in its heredity.
Yet the whole question is still an open one and fruit-growers are
waiting to know whether putting buds through the sieve of selection is
worth while. The advocates of improving orchards by bud-selection say
little, however, about selecting stocks. There is nothing more certain
than that the stock greatly influences the character of the tree. The
modifications so brought about probably appear and disappear with the
individual--at least we should be the last in the world to hold that
peaches could be permanently modified by the stocks. The point is, if
buds are selected for the tops, the stocks should be selected also. To
do otherwise is to imitate the ostrich--head in the sand, body exposed.

The peach is easy to propagate. Let it be said before going into
the matter, however, that practically all of the trees in the
peach-orchards in New York were grown in nurseries and that it is
probably best to let the propagation of trees continue a business for
the specialist. Still, it is well that the grower know in a general
way the operations in the propagation of the peach-tree. We wish, too,
to put on record the nursery methods used in propagating this fruit at
this period in the history of the peach.

In planting peach-pits, art imitates and quickens nature. In nature the
seeds are self-sown as they ripen, the succulent coat keeping the hard
envelope containing the kernel from becoming stony so that the young
plant bursts forth at the proper season. But in cleaning and drying
seeds for sale and transportation, they become hard and dry and must
be subjected to somewhat special treatment before planting. In mild
climates the pits are soaked or kept moist in sand, earth or other
medium until softened and are then planted in the fall in rows where
the trees are to be grown. In cold climates the stones are subjected to
freezing, thereby cracking them, after which the kernels are sown in
the spring. To freeze, the seeds are placed in strata with moist sand,
saw-dust, straw or other material supplying an abundance of moisture,
and exposed to the freezing weather of winter which usually frees the
kernel from its envelope. The kernels are then sifted from the stones
and sand and sowed in rows four feet apart. Pits which the frost does
not open must be cracked by hand, though this tedious operation is
usually omitted by large nurseries.

The seeds are planted in a rich, well-drained soil, preferably a light
loam with good bottom. By late mid-summer in New York the stocks are
ready to bud, though often the operation extends into September. The
peach is universally budded in America, grafting being most difficult,
though trees can be grown from root-cuttings. The method of budding
is the common T, or shield-bud. The buds "take" in a week or two, but
remain dormant until the next spring when the top of the stock above
the bud is removed to give the cion right of way. At one year from the
bud, two years from the seed, in northern climates, the trees are ready
to be transplanted in the orchard. In the South and on the Pacific
Slope, budding may be done in June, thereby saving a season. These
"June buds," however, excepting under the most favorable conditions,
in the East at least, are weaklings not nearly so desirable as "summer
buds." Occasionally, more particularly in California, summer-budded
stocks are planted in the fall or the next spring as "dormant buds."
In New York, trees older than one year from the bud are seldom worth
planting though occasionally it is necessary to save stocks until their
second season before budding.

In budding, the bud-sticks are cut as needed, after which the leaves
are trimmed leaving about a quarter of an inch of the stem as a handle
to the bud. After trimming, the sticks are wrapped in damp burlap and
are taken to the field--once dried, they are worthless. The buds at
the end of the bud-stick are discarded, the plump, hard buds near the
middle of the stick being the most vigorous. At the point where the
bud is to be inserted a T-shaped incision is made, the transverse cut
being secured by a rocking motion of the knife and the vertical one
by lightly drawing the knife upward from a point about an inch below
the first cut. Before removing the knife a slight twist of the blade
loosens the edges better to receive the bud.

The bud is cut from below upward with a drawing motion of the knife.
Nearly the entire thickness of the bark is cut at the point of the bud
so that it will not crumple when inserted into the stock. Almost no
wood is taken with the bud but on the other hand the bud must not be so
thin that the soft growing tissue between the bark and wood is injured.
The bud is taken between the thumb and forefinger and lifted free from
the wood. With the leaf-stem as a handle the bud is inserted into the
T-shaped incision and pushed down until its "heel" is flush with the
transverse cut. Waxing is not necessary but the bud must be securely
tied.

For this purpose raffia is now almost universally used. It is cut into
lengths of eighteen or twenty inches and moistened to make it soft and
pliable. The strand is first brought firmly across the upper end of
the bud to keep it from working out. Beginning then at the bottom of
the slit, the raffia is wound smoothly upward covering everything but
the "eye" and is tied in a single square knot. This winding must be
tight to hold the bud immovably in place. In from two to four weeks,
depending on the growth of the stock, the raffia should be cut to
prevent its girdling the tree.

In the nursery trade, peach-trees are graded according to caliper
or according to height--rarely both since there is a very definite
relation between the two. The common sizes by caliper, or diameter of
the trunk, are five-, seven- or nine-sixteenths of an inch. According
to height, the grades are "three to four foot," "four to five foot,"
or "five to seven foot." The medium-sized grade is usually the best
since fewer trees die in transplanting, they are much easier to handle
and, more important, provide a better opportunity for the grower to
form the head as he wants it. The smallest grade often has many stunted
trees. A first-class tree is free from insects and fungi or the effects
of either. Other things being equal, a short, stocky tree is better
than a tall, spindling one; one with many branches better than one
with few. The best stamp on a peach-tree, however, is a well-developed
root-system--many-branched, well-distributed, fibrous, fresh roots.
Practically all peach-trees in New York are dug in the fall and kept in
storage through the winter.


THE PEACH-ORCHARD AND ITS CARE

The peach-orchard is the consummation of modern fruit-growing. It is
more than a plantation of peach-trees, for it personifies ideals and
reflects the personality of the owner. A glance at a peach-orchard
and one knows whether the proprietor is lazy or industrious, slovenly
or orderly, procrastinating or prompt. An orchard of dingy, unhappy
peach-trees is an odious sight in the eyes of a good fruit-grower
accustomed to nurturing and fondling his own trees. Tenants seldom
succeed in peach-growing. Here is a case in which Cato, the sturdy old
Roman farmer, is surely right: "The face of the master is good for the
land." The peach in our climate is least able of all fruits to subsist
without the aid of man. The best trees in the best soil, if neglected,
have a short, miserable and profitless existence. These considerations,
then, must bring us to the conclusion that growing peaches differs
somewhat from growing other fruits. If not more difficult it is at
least a finer and more delicate affair in which the laborer and
craftsman working by rule give way to men of higher degree who put
thought, intelligence and taste into their work.

New York is very fortunate in having much land in all of its
peach-districts that is easily prepared for planting. Growers are not
called upon to profane the peach by planting it in a field of boulders
as in New England nor amongst stumps as in some southern peach-regions.
Growers in the State long ago learned that it is an up-hill task to
grow the peach in land not thoroughly fitted at the start. Usually the
land is prepared a year in advance by putting in a hoed crop, after
which it is plowed deeply in the fall, pulverized thoroughly in the
spring and then planted as promptly as possible. Fall-planting is not
practicable because of severe losses following from winter-killing.

The peach-orchard is usually laid out in meridians and parallels in New
York at intervals of 18 by 18 or 20 by 20 feet, the former requiring
134 and the latter 108 trees. The topography of the land sometimes
gives preference to the triangular system of setting and rich soils
or large growing varieties indicate greater distance while poor soils
and small trees suggest closer planting. One thing certain, it is
poor orcharding to set the trees too closely. Peaches picked in the
pleached alleys of a closely set orchard are few, small and poor in
quality. Pride in appearance and convenience in working the trees make
perfect alignment imperative. The peach readily self-pollinates so that
interplanting varieties is not practiced, but, rather, for convenience
in harvesting, varieties are set in solid blocks, growers seldom,
nowadays, planting more than three or four sorts. Laying out the land,
digging holes, trimming roots, setting trees are all kindergarten
operations in fruit-growing, well understood by any one qualified to go
into peach-growing.

As to varieties, Elberta is now the mainstay of all the
peach-districts, coming in as the mid-season crop. Greensboro, Carman,
Champion, and Belle, all white-fleshed; and St. John, Fitzgerald,
Niagara and Early Crawford, all yellow-fleshed, the two series named
in order of ripening, are standard varieties preceding Elberta in
the markets. Standard sorts following are, Oldmixon Free, the only
white-fleshed sort, and Crosby, Late Crawford, Kalamazoo, Chili, Smock
and Salwey, these also named in order of maturity. A large number
of new varieties are on probation in the State of which Arp, Lola,
Edgemont, Rochester, J. H. Hale and Frances are now most conspicuous.
The peach-flora changes rapidly and many of these favorites of today
will be the cast-offs of tomorrow.

In the early life of the orchard, until bearing is well established,
an inter-crop is a valuable asset in New York peach-orchards; on the
other hand, planted in bearing orchards, any other crop than the
peach is a heavy liability. While inter-cropping is not peculiar to
New York orchards it is probably more practiced in this State than in
any other. Few, indeed, are the plantations in this region that do not
sustain themselves for the first three or four years of their existence
on the crops grown between the trees. These are, or should be, hoed
crops like potatoes, cabbage, beans and cannery crops. He is a sloven,
indeed, who would crop his peach-orchard with grass or grain. Along the
Hudson, small-fruits are looked upon as permissible, but are everywhere
discountenanced in western New York.

Occasionally the peach itself is planted as an inter-crop in
apple-orchards. The custom has little to recommend it and is not as
common now as it was a few years ago. The objection to the peach as a
catch-crop in the apple-orchard is that serious complications arise
in orchard-operations, the two fruits often requiring quite different
treatment in their care and, in spraying the apple, the peach is almost
certain to be more or less injured.

In the matter of cultivation, peach-growers are not in the fog that
envelopes and befuddles apple-growers in New York. The peach so
luxuriates under thorough cultivation and, on the other hand, the
jaundiced leaves and hectic flush of the fruit speak so plainly of evil
days when the trees are in sod or unbroken ground that cultivation is
universal. Cultivation, as practiced by the best growers, consists
of plowing the land in the spring and then frequently stirring the
soil until late July or early August. The tools are as diverse as the
kinds of soil. Whatever the details, the surface must be kept level,
covered with a dust-mulch and free from weeds. In soils that are light,
therefore hungry and thirsty, cultivation in the best orchards is
almost continuous. To do full duty in such a soil many men cultivate
weekly. Disking is sometimes substituted for plowing but this is
usually poor policy for the plow buries the mummied peaches that drop
in every orchard to scatter countless myriads of spores of brown-rot
and so perpetuate this plague of the peach-grower. Winter retreats
so sullenly in New York that it is sometimes difficult to find time
and weather for early spring plowing so that increasing numbers of
peach-growers are plowing their orchards in the fall.

The cover-crop follows the last cultivation. There is a growing
suspicion in the State that the value of cover-crops in orchards
has been magnified. Comparative tests do not show that trees or
small-fruits respond to cover-cropping to as great an extent as from
theory one might expect them to do. Thus, in several experiments being
conducted by this Station, apples and grapes give no very appreciable
response to the various cover-crops--at least pay but doubtfully for
the expense of seed and seeding. While there are no very satisfactory
experiments to confirm the assumption, it would seem, however, that
the peach of all fruits would be most benefitted by cover-crops. It is
patent to all who have had orchard-experience that land is in better
tilth when some green crop is turned under in fall or spring; so, too,
all know that a cover-crop sowed in mid-summer causes the peach to
mature its wood and thus go into the winter in better condition; it is
not unreasonable to assume, though it is impossible to secure reliable
experimental data to confirm the belief, that cover-crops protect the
roots of peaches from winter-killing. Leaving out, then, the doubtful
value of the cover-crop in furnishing plant-food to the peach, at least
three sufficient reasons make it a necessary adjunct of a peach-orchard.

Several cover-crops are now in general use in the peach-orchards of New
York, in order of frequency of use about as follows: Clover, vetch,
oats, barley, cow-horn turnip, rape, rye, buckwheat. Combination
cover-crops are less popular than formerly, cost of seed being the
deterrent. Yet many years of experience at this Station and wide
observation in the State, unsubstantiated, however, by any experimental
work, lead to the conclusion that some combination of a leguminous and
a non-leguminous crop makes the most satisfactory cover-crop for the
peach. A half-bushel of oats or barley plus twenty pounds of winter
vetch or twelve pounds of red clover is possibly the most satisfactory
of all cover-crops for this fruit in New York. Occasionally a change
from oats to barley, and clover to vetch should be made and once in
four or five years rape or cow-horn turnip should be worked into the
rotation.

In the matter of fertilizers, the peach-grower early learns humility.
He is no sooner certain that his trees must be fertilized and that
he has at last hit upon the right formula than his check plats or
his neighbor's orchard convince him that he is not getting the worth
of his money in fertilizers. In eastern New York, peach-orchards are
very generally fertilized and rather heavily, the amounts and formulas
being nearly as diverse as the men applying them. In western New York,
commercial fertilizers are comparatively little used in peach-orchards.
Experiments in fertilizing peaches in progress at this Station are
inconclusive and there is nothing to offer from the work here as to
what the peach needs in the way of plant-food. In the present state
of our knowledge, about the best the peach-grower can do is to assume
that, if his trees are vigorous, bearing well and making a fair amount
of growth, they need no additional plant-food. If they are not in the
condition described, look to the drainage, tillage and health of the
trees first and the more expensive and less certain fertilization
afterward. More and more, in western New York at least, growers are
carrying on simple experiments to obtain positive evidence as to what
elements of plant-food their trees need.

The following is an example of such an experiment: (1) Acid phosphate
to give about 50 lbs. of phosphoric acid to the acre; (2) phosphate as
above and muriate of potash to give 100 lbs. of potash to the acre;
(3) phosphate and muriate as above and nitrate of soda and dried blood
to give 50 lbs. of nitrogen per acre; (4) six tons of stable manure is
applied on a fourth plat; (5) a similar plat is left unfertilized for a
check.

No fallacy dies harder than that fertilizers will cure yellows. Nitrate
of soda is a great rejuvenator of trees suffering from yellows brought
on by sod or lack of tillage but no fact in peach-orcharding has been
more thoroughly demonstrated than that neither this fertilizer nor any
other will in the least benefit trees suffering from true yellows or
from the somewhat similar trouble, little-peach.

Of all fruit-trees, pruning is most used with the peach in regulating
the development of the tree. In its early years, we may almost say
that the peach "lives by the knife." At all stages of growth the
vigorous use of the knife is indispensable in keeping the peach in
proper bounds, and yet, rather paradoxically, knife and saw must be
used sometime or other in the life of every peach-orchard to stimulate
growth or at least to force out new growths. Indispensable as a certain
amount of pruning is in training the peach, there is no question in
the minds of those who have studied the subject but that it is much
more often overdone than underdone. There are no fixed rules in pruning
peaches and to discuss in full the diverse theories and practices is
not within the range of this exposition. All that can be attempted is
briefly to set down what the present practices are in the State.

In transplanting, the peach suffers severe root-pruning, an operation
that it does not bear well. Thus deprived of its roots, the young tree
must have its top correspondingly diminished. Two practices are in
vogue in New York in this curtailment of the top as the trees go from
the nursery to the orchard. The most common practice is to cut the
young tree back to a whip and then shorten-in the whip. New branches
spring freely from this bare stub but these do not always come where
they are wanted and often the new wood comes only from the stock. These
objections to pruning to a whip have brought about a modification in
which the branches are cut back to stubs of two or three buds. In a
series of experiments now in progress on the Station grounds it seems
certain that the second method is better than the first.

Two forms of top are open to choice--the vase-form, or open-centered
tree, and the globe-form, or close-centered tree. In the first the
framework of the tree consists of a short trunk, surmounted by four
or five main branches ascending obliquely. In the second the trunk
is continued above the branches, forming the center of the tree,
and, later being headed in, a globe-like head is formed. In New York
the vase-form is nearly always chosen. In neither case is the task
difficult since the peach springs almost at once into tree-form with a
full complement of branches. Beginning with the second year the main
branches are shortened back from one-third to one-half their growth, if
heading back seem necessary, cutting to upper and inner buds so that
the oblique ascending vase-form is maintained. The pruning of the third
season is much the same, except that some of the interior branches
should be removed to open up the heads to air and sunshine. The third
season's pruning is repeated from year to year, having in mind that
the slow-growing, hardy, productive sorts can be pruned much more
severely than the free-growing, tender kinds. Open forks are a serious
menace and are carefully avoided to lessen the danger of splitting when
branches are heavily laden. About the most common mistake is that of
cutting out too much wood, thereby inducing so heavy a growth in the
parts that remain that winter-killing takes place; at best it makes
necessary continued heavy pruning for several seasons to keep the trees
in manageable size and shape.

Heading-in as described in the foregoing paragraphs is necessary
because the peach bears the bulk of its crop high up on its branches,
which are often broken by the weight so that after a bountiful harvest
the orchard looks as if a cyclone had swept through it. As the limbs
lengthen, too, it becomes increasingly difficult to pick the peaches.
Even with annual heading-in the bearing wood eventually gets too far
from the ground and the grower may have to resort to decapitating the
trees--an operation commonly known by the inapt term "dehorning." When
old trees are thus to be rejuvenated the limbs are sawed off during
the dormant season to within two feet or thereabouts of the trunk.
The tree will then form a new head which will in a season or two set
fruit-buds and bear a crop. The orchard may thus very often be renewed
or even re-renewed, lengthening its life by several seasons. In thus
decapitating trees, however, one season is always lost, sometimes two,
and the writer questions if it is not better to give the peach a "merry
life and a short one" rather than resort to decapitation to prolong its
days. Most growers may well throw dehorning into the rubbish-heap of
the not-worth-while.

Occasionally one sees in the State orchards in which the top is sheared
to a level plane. This shearing follows a fashion, now happily going
out, as it cannot come from any well-thought-out design. It takes but
a moment's study of the sheared tree to see the faults of the method.
Strong shoots are cut back too much, weak ones not enough; superfluous
shoots are not removed but, to the contrary, multiplied as in shearing
a hedge. Heading-in some or all of the shoots may be very necessary but
shearing to a line--never.

Summer-pruning is not practiced in New York peach-orchards. No doubt
every grower, however, as he goes about among his trees in the growing
season cuts back a branch outstripping its neighbors, removes an
occasional unruly member or one out of place, pinches here and rubs
there, better to train his trees to the ideal he has in mind. Certainly
no harm is done by such summer-pruning when the trees are strong and
vigorous.

This record of pruning practices in New York cannot be closed
without stating that there are growers who do not prune--not only
through neglect but as a matter of principle. Chiefly, these are
men more accustomed to the other tree-fruits--most of which make a
fair showing without pruning--than to the peach. The peach can go
a few years unpruned without becoming an abnormal orchard-specimen
but left to itself to the prime of life without the reinvigorating
and form-giving knife a peach-orchard becomes a woeful spectacle.
The limbs crowd, choke and kill each other, except the strongest or
those most fortunately placed, which push aloft, bearing at their
extremities sparse-foliaged, parasol-like canopies of jaundiced
foliage which furnish no protection from the blaze of the sun to the
bare, bark-burned, gum-covered trunk and branches. The tree-tops are
populous with dead and dying twigs and do not furnish sufficient
nutriment for the normal development of fruit or tree. These unpruned
peach-orchards, come to old age, are the saddest sights of the country.
After the first few crops, when the flush of vigor has passed, they
cannot be profitable and it would seem the sooner the axe lays them low
the better for the owner. Not to prune the peach is consummate neglect.

Peaches are thinned to improve the fruit that remains, to save the
vigor of the tree, and destroy insect- or disease-infected fruits.
Commendable as these objects are, the practice is all too seldom
observed in New York. The objections are scarcity and high cost of
labor. Still the best growers always thin, doing the work soon after
the summer drop which usually occurs six to eight weeks after the
blossoming-time and just as the pits in the embryonic fruits begin
to harden. It requires good judgment to tell at the time of thinning
what will prove superfluity at the harvest. Vigor of tree, variety,
fertility and moisture in the soil, the season, diseases and insects,
all must be considered. The common advice is to thin the fruits so
that they will not be nearer together than from four to six inches
but the skillful growers adjust the size of the crop to the orchard
and seasonal conditions. Thinning really begins, it should be said,
in the winter when the trees are dormant and redundant branches and
superfluous wood on the parts remaining are cut out. By delaying
winter-pruning until danger of winter-killing is passed many growers
save labor in summer-thinning, since, as early as this, fruit-prospects
are fore-shadowed.

It is interesting to record that peach-orchards are never top-grafted
in New York though it seems to be a matter of rather frequent
practice in the South and far West. There are plenty of occasions for
working over peach-trees in this State; as, when poor varieties are
substituted, or in changes in fashion in peaches, or on finding a
variety poorly adapted to orchard-conditions. But under any of these
unfortunate circumstances in New York the axe and the grub-hoe make
way for a new planting rather than trust to the skill of the grafter.
Old peach-trees can, of course, be either budded over or grafted over
to a new variety but we take it that a century of experience has
demonstrated that changing the whole tree is better than changing the
top.


HARVESTING, MARKETING AND PROFITS

The beginning of the Twentieth Century is marked as a period in which
commercial affairs in agriculture are being more highly developed than
ever before. Temporarily, the idea of making two blades of grass
grow where one grew before is eclipsed by the idea that success in
agriculture is quite as much dependent on business management as on
large production. We need, then, in _The Peaches of New York_ to set
down as precisely as possible, as a record of the times, the business
side of peach-growing. This we conceive, so far as the fruit-grower
is concerned, consists of matters having to do with growing, picking,
grading, packing, cooling and shipping, while the affairs of the
several go-betweens from producer to consumer belong to merchanting
rather than orcharding. Not that the grower is without interest in the
selling of his products--far from it. There is no better ballast to
keep the fruit-dealer steady than knowledge of all of his dealings on
the part of the fruit-grower.

Among Caucasians green peaches have a bad reputation. Adage, prose
and poetry bear witness that any curtailment of the sun's maturing
function in this fruit is going against nature and makes an altogether
unwholesome product. But in China and Japan the peach is habitually
eaten green and hard. Fungi play such havoc with peaches in Oriental
countries that the fruit must be devoured green or the crop is lost.
A green peach is quite as palatable, nutritious and wholesome as a
green olive. The ripe product of the one is just as superior to the
green as is the other. All this not to point a moral or adorn a tale
but to bring out the fact that the green peach is an edible fruit and
that the annual performance of health inspectors in all large markets
in condemning carloads of green peaches as unfit for food while green
olives, apples, pears, plums, cherries and grapes pass muster, is an
unjust discrimination against the peach. The peach is, of course, best
when ripe, soft, melting and luscious, but so are all other fruits
and all should be accorded the same treatment by consumers and health
inspectors.

The peach in western countries is picked for market when it has
attained full size and is passing from the hard state of the green
peach to the softer mature condition. The picker tells by eye and by
pressure of the peach between thumb and finger when a peach is ready
for picking. White-fleshed peaches are green in color when picked
but turn to greenish-white or yellowish-white as maturity proceeds;
yellow-fleshed turn from yellowish-green to lemon or orange-yellow.
The full flavor of the ripe peach develops only when the fruit ripens
on the tree but ripe fruit cannot be shipped and peaches are therefore
picked at the stage in advance of full maturity that will permit them
to reach the market at maturity--one or two days in New York, six or
seven in California. Peach-picking is a delicate business for it is
equally disastrous to gather the crop before it is ripe enough or to
delay a day or two too long.

Few picking appliances are needed for the peach in New York since the
trees are trained so low most of the fruit can be picked from the
ground or from a short step-ladder. The knack of peach-picking consists
of tipping the fruit sidewise with a light twist which releases it from
the branch without the bruise of a direct pull. The care in handling
depends largely on the temperament of the picker--a coarse, careless
ruffian cannot handle the tender-fleshed peach with the consideration
it deserves. Women are much employed in picking peaches. Two systems of
managing pickers are in vogue: They are employed by the day in charge
of a competent foreman; or the picker is supplied with tickets or tally
cards and is paid by the basket. The day-system is commonest and most
satisfactory. When peach-picking is in full swing a man can pick 100
half-bushel baskets in a day of sorts like Elberta in which the fruits
ripen at the same time, but the quantity grows smaller and smaller as
the varieties decrease in size and increase in length of ripening-time.
Peaches are usually graded and packed indoors, being brought under
cover in special picking receptacles into which the fruit is put as
it comes from the tree. Packing indoors is a comparatively modern
innovation, the method a decade or two ago being to pack in the field
as is occasionally done now, more especially for local markets.

Grading peaches is still a matter of local or personal practice in New
York as it is the country over. No state seems yet to have regulated by
law the grading of peaches, as several have done with the apple. The
need is quite as great for such laws for one fruit as for the other,
and no doubt grading peaches in New York will soon be regulated by the
strong arm of the law as is grading apples. The essentials in good
grading as now practiced are fair or large size for the variety, high
and characteristic color, uniformity in size and color, freedom from
bruises and insect and fungus injuries, and full and characteristic
flavor for the variety. Peaches vary much in shape and pubescence
depending on soil and climate--so much that through variations in these
characters the identity of varieties is sometimes lost--but grading is
not yet sufficiently refined to take note of either character. Good
growers sort into at least three grades, counting culls.

Not solely as a matter of record but to inspire further progress as
well, we record the fact that New York is behind the times in the
package used in sending peaches to market. The antiquated Delaware
package, a truncated cone holding a third- or a half-bushel, is now
the most popular package with growers. This package is a poor carrier,
clumsy and easily tipped over, its sides are so thin that the fruit
bruises, it is easily opened by thieves and it is unattractive. The
reason for its popularity among growers may be guessed when its sole
merit is named--peaches need less sorting and are easily packed in this
Delaware package. The grand jury of consumers, the country over, has
declared for a smaller package for dessert peaches than the Delaware
truncated cone and a larger one for culinary peaches. Better in every
way, and more and more used by growers in the State are the several
sizes of climax baskets. The best of all peach-packages, the Georgia
carrier, is just coming into use in New York. It is a crate holding six
four-quart till-baskets. These till-baskets are dainty and attractive,
fulfilling well the adage "good goods come in small packages." The
Georgia carrier is conceded by all to hold the palm of merit for
long-distance shipments of dessert peaches. The bushel and half-bushel,
round-bottom, farm type, the substantial cover supported by a stout peg
between cover and bottom, are being more and more used for shipping the
home canning supply. In western New York the bushel basket, if not now,
promises soon to be the most popular of all peach-packages.

Our common commercial container, the Delaware basket, is seldom a
packed package. The peaches are turned in, assorted somewhat as to
size, and the top layer faced with the red cheek up. The climax basket
requires more care in packing. The fruit must be arranged in layers
and tiers according to the size of peach and basket. Skill and not
a little ingenuity are displayed in packing the dainty till-baskets
for the Georgia carrier, all depending on the size, uniformity and
shape of the peach. The peaches are placed in rows and tiers which
regularly alternate and cover much as in a box of packed apples. The
peach-harvest in New York usually comes in pleasant weather so that the
packing house is generally but a screen from the blaze of the sun, put
up in the orchard. The packages, both before and after filling, are, of
course, kept clean and dry under permanent cover.

The peach is so handsome and delectable, for that matter so pleasing
to all of the senses, that every fruit-grower takes special pride in a
finely-finished product going to market and more often than with any
other fruit advertises his wares with a label. These show original
ownership, where grown, often the variety, always the grade and
usually advertise the whole farm and its product. Some growers have
their labels registered in the United States Patent Office.

New York peach-growers profit more and more from cold-storage. Peaches
can be kept for a few weeks in storage at the freezing point or just
above but they soon lose texture and flavor on coming out and cannot
compete with fresh peaches which reach the markets every day from
some source from May until November. Precooling before shipment, now
but coming into practice, is of inestimable value in the heat of the
summer. The fruit is quickly packed and then cooled to 40° F. in a
central station or by forcing cold air through loaded cars, and then
goes under refrigeration to destination. In eastern New York peaches
go mostly to New York City by night-boat but refrigerator service is
an absolute necessity for western New York and has been very generally
installed by the railroads of the region. The precooling station is to
be the next step in advance.


DISTRIBUTION OF THE NEW YORK PEACH-CROP

In the past the great problems of peach-growers, as of those who grow
other agricultural products, have been cultural in their essential
character. Attention to problems of distribution have had to do with
the opening up of new regions of production--the expansion of the
agricultural domain; with developing means of transportation--railroad
lines, steamboat service, canals; and in developing centers of
consumption in the cities and towns which have been springing up
everywhere in the habitable parts of America. Until recent years,
little has been done in studying the commercial disposition of
agricultural products. Now, however, studies are being made everywhere
of the distributive systems by which products get to market and to
determine what share of the consumer's price should go to the producer
and what to the distributor. Everywhere the importance of these
economic studies is recognized and no producer sees more clearly than
the New York peach-grower the need of improvement in handling products
to distribute risks, reduce risks, decrease the numbers in the vast
armies of middlemen and in every way improve defective distribution.
But these questions belong to specialists--economists. We wish here
only to furnish a few fundamental data which may be of use to all
concerned in the distribution of the peach-crop.

In the economic study of the peach-industry in the State it is
essential to know the volume of the product in the State; what
proportion of the total different sections produce; how the crop is
distributed in consumption; and the movement of the peach-crop from
competing peach-states. These data we undertake to furnish for the year
1915, a normal peach-year, taking the figures from the transportation
lines handling peaches in New York so far as obtainable. The volume of
the product for western New York is shown by figures taken from the New
York Central Railroad[258] and the Lehigh Valley Railroad. Peaches were
shipped from towns as follows:

  Adams Basin      26 Cars
  Albion           41  "
  Appleton        108  "
  Ashwood          19  "
  Barker          261  "
  Barnard          72  "
  Brice            24  "
  Brighton          3  "
  Brockport       116  "
  Buffalo           2  "
  Burt            244  "
  Carlton          25  "
  Caywood          16  "
  Charlotte        88  "
  Covert           21  "
  E. Williamson    52  "
  Elberta          24  "
  Elm Grove         1  "
  Fancher          17  "
  Fruitland        48  "
  Gasport         108  "
  Geneva           19  "
  Greece           14  "
  Hamlin          216  "
  Hector           28  "
  Hilton          314  "
  Holley           27  "
  Junius           61  "
  Kendall          70  "
  Lewiston        432  "
  Lockport        119  "
  Lodi              3  "
  Lyndonville     171  "
  Medina           76  "
  Middleport       36  "
  Millers          87  "
  Model City      156  "
  Morton          188  "
  North Rose        2  "
  Ontario          43  "
  Pittsford         2  "
  Ransomville      38  "
  Rochester       214  "
  Rushville         3  "
  Sodus           126  "
  Spencerport      91  "
  Trumansburg      11  "
  Union Hill        1  "
  Valois            5  "
  Walker          168  "
  Waterport        15  "
  Waverly           1  "
  Webster           3  "
  Williamson      371  "
  Wilson          126  "
  Wolcott          15  "
                 ---------
      Total      4568 Cars
                 ---------

These figures include plums but the shipment of plums in 1915 was so
insignificant as to be negligible and more than offset by shipments of
peaches not accounted for by the carriers named.

In addition to the above the American Express Company took out of this
territory about 175 cars, mostly in less than car-lot shipments.

Accurate figures could not be obtained from the Hudson River Valley
and Long Island shipping points as so much of the fruit is shipped by
water, but, basing the yield in 1915 on the census reports of 1909 as
to yields and number of trees as compared with similar data for these
years from western New York, a rough approximation of the number of
carloads in eastern New York is 600. From reports received from the
chief Hudson River navigation lines it would seem that they probably
carried about one hundred carloads.

Practically all of the 600 carloads grown in eastern New York were
consigned to New York City or nearby towns. From the above table we
may assume that about 5000 carloads were produced in the rest of the
State and we are fortunate in having a record as to where 4419 of these
were consigned. The New York Central Railroad distributed the number of
carloads named as follows:[259]

  _No. of_  _Percentage_                                           _No._
   _Cars_    _of Crop_                 _Destination_             _Towns_

  1,628     36    Buffalo and points west, including Pittsburgh       96
    906     20    Pennsylvania and points south of Newberry Junction  72
    222      5    Points east of Albany                               25
    986     22.3  Points north of New York City                      145
    677     15.7  New York City                                        1
  -----                                                              ---
  4,419                                                              339
  =====                                                              ===

Analyzing these figures we find that the 4,419 carloads reached 339
destinations grouped as follows:[260]

    9 cities took 2,378 cars, over one-half of the crop,

   21 cities took 3,018 cars, two-thirds of the crop,

   59 cities took from 4 to 10 cars each,

  231 cities took from 1 to 3 cars each,

   62 per cent of the crop went outside of the State,

   22.3 per cent went to points in New York north of New York City,

   15.7 per cent went to New York City

The nine cities which took over one-half of the crop are:

  New York          677 Cars
  Pittsburgh        555  "
  Philadelphia      418  "
  Cleveland         156  "
  Boston            135  "
  Cincinnati        116  "
  Syracuse          109  "
  Columbus          109  "
  Detroit           103  "
                  ----------
      Total       2,378 Cars
                  ==========

While these nine cities took over one-half the 1915 peach-crop,
twenty-one cities took 3,018 carloads. In addition to those already
named, these cities are as follows:

  Newark, N. J.      77 Cars
  Dayton, O.         69  "
  Albany             67  "
  Utica              64  "
  Baltimore          55  "
  Troy               52  "
  Wilkes-Barre       50  "
  Schenectady        46  "
  Watertown          44  "
  Indianapolis       43  "
  Toledo             37  "
  Providence         36  "
                  ----------
      Total       3,018 Cars
                  ==========


COSTS IN GROWING PEACHES

Peach-growing is a game of chance from start to finish; advantages and
disadvantages in location are exceedingly changeable; risks to tree
and crop attendant on weather are many; the trees are beset on all
sides by diseases and parasites for two of which in New York, yellows
and little-peach, there is no preventive, antidote nor alleviation;
transportation is perilous, competition keen, and markets fitful.
Add variability in investment and the difficulties in calculating
profits in peach-growing are apparent. On the other hand, keeping
accounts in peach-growing is not as difficult and complicated as
in growing other fruits. The peach is not as long-lived, barring
accidents the trees bear more regularly, the crop is quickly disposed
of, orchard-operations among growers are more uniform, and, no doubt,
the very fact that the peach partakes so much of speculation makes
growers a little keener on striking balances at the end of the season.
At any rate there is a great body of material in the reports of the
horticultural societies in New York on costs in peach-growing and from
these data, together with notes taken for several years, we venture to
estimate the present costs per acre of the several items entering into
peach-production. To attempt to go further and calculate profits, with
all of the inconstant factors of yields and markets, would be guessing
pure and simple.

Let us consider the cost of production in a ten-acre orchard. This
unit is now, however, rather too small, for more and more growers are
giving up general farming, finding peach-growing an exacting, full-time
vocation. Often enough it is successfully combined with the growing of
other fruits, but less and less so with the growing of farm-crops. The
first item in cost of production is interest on investment. What value
is to be placed on a New York peach-orchard?

The value must be calculated from the cost of land and trees and
the labor and the deferred dividends until the orchard comes into
profitable bearing. Selling price is never a safe gauge with the
peach, sales usually being made under conditions more abnormal than
in almost any other phase of farming and showing great variability
in every locality. Suppose we place the value at $400 per acre, a
sum sufficiently high to cover, besides the cost of the orchard, the
overhead expenses of houses and barns that would fall to ten acres of
a New York farm. Interest now runs at five percentum so that the first
expense item is $20.00 per acre on investment. Assessment rates on land
so valued would bring taxes up to $1.00 per acre.

The equipment needed to care for a peach-orchard is quite uniform the
State over and the cost of the several items varies scarcely at all,
so that a very close approximation may be made of the total cost. The
items run about as follows: Team and harness at present price, $500;
spraying outfit, $250; wagon, plow, harrow, ladders, crates, pruning
tools, etc., $250; total, $1,000. These figures are below the mark
rather than above but the instances are few in which the equipment
itemized would be used exclusively for a ten-acre peach-orchard; in
fact, with this equipment thirty acres could be cared for. It is not
total cost, however, but depreciation and interest on money with which
we are concerned. Setting these at 20 percentum, we have $20.00 per
acre to charge to maintenance of equipment.

Year in and year out, tillage is the most costly ingredient in the
making of a good peach-orchard. It consists of plowing once a year,
fall or spring, and harrowing on the average at least ten times a
season. High cost of labor brings this item up to $10.00 per acre which
includes seeding the cover-crop but not the cost of seed, for which an
additional charge of $2.50 must be made for a combination crop of red
clover and oats or of vetch and barley.

It would seem easiest of all to ascertain the cost of fertilizers for
the peach but the practices are so diverse and fertilizers are applied
so irregularly by those who use them at all that the data at hand are
almost worthless. Those who plow under cover-crops regularly, spend
little for fertilizers; an occasional dressing of stable manure answers
for fertilization with many; still more, so uncertain of results
as to feel they are "buying a pig in the poke," spend nothing for
fertilizers. We shall enter a charge of $5.00 per acre for fertilizers
though this is without question above the average even if only
successful orchards be considered.

A more certain charge is that for pruning. The problems in pruning are
more of the mind than the hand and once the work is laid out it goes
along rapidly. An acre-average of $3.00 is sufficient to cover the
expense of pruning and thinning may be done, year in and year out, at
the same cost.

The peach-orchard is customarily sprayed but once in New York, an
application of the lime-sulphur wash being made to prevent leaf-curl
and to destroy San Jose scale. The cost of this single spray cannot
be more than $4.00 per acre but to this must be added a charge for
protection against mice and rabbits, destruction of borers and cutting
out trees infected with yellows or little-peach, averaging, all told,
at least $8.00 for keeping under pests.

The services of a peach-grower are worth more than the time of the
men who do the actual labor. It is but fair, then, that an allowance
be made for superintending the work. Since a competent orchardist can
superintend a farm enterprise of several times the magnitude of a
ten-acre orchard, but part can be allowed for superintendence, $300 for
the season being a fair price, or $30.00 per acre.

Picking, grading, packing and hauling are all operations that cost
no two men the same for any one. Without attempting to segregate
these items an approximation of the total cost of all, based on a
considerable amount of data, is $30.00 per acre. This sum does not
include the cost of packages.

This brings us to a summary of the cost sheet in growing the average
acre of peaches:

  Interest on investment                      $20.00
  Taxes                                         1.00
  Depreciation in equipment and interest       20.00
  Tillage                                      10.00
  Cover-crop seed                               2.50
  Fertilizers                                   5.00
  Pruning and thinning                          6.00
  Keeping pests under                           8.00
  Superintendence                              30.00
  Picking, grading, packing and hauling        30.00
                                             -------
                                             $132.50
                                             =======

Pushing this calculation further, the cost per tree runs at $1.32-1/2,
there being 100 trees to the acre in the average orchard in the State.
Peach-growers expect 150 bushels per acre during the bearing time of
the peach, and dividing 132.50 by 150 we have 88-1/3 cents as the
average cost, exclusive of the package, per bushel of peaches in
New York. In this calculation it is assumed that the peach comes in
profitable bearing at five years after setting and that the orchard is
on the home stretch in the fifteenth lap, giving ten bearing seasons,
at least three of which will be fruitless.

Peach-growers to whom this cost sheet has been submitted say 88
cents is too high a cost for producing a bushel of peaches but asked
to consider the several items agree that most of them are too low.
No doubt few who figure the cost of production include the item of
superintendency which increases the cost for each bushel 20 cents.
So, too, the average yield given is considered high. Granting that
they may be high, all of the figures are permitted to stand, on the
theory that the yield bears a close relationship to the expense of
production--increased costs stand for increased yields. In tabulations
of this kind much is usually made of the cost of bringing the orchard
in bearing. In this calculation the high charge of investment goes to
cover the cost of the first five years, the period of incubation, so
to speak, and it is certain that this, with the sale of inter-crops,
covers all expenditures for the first five years.


DISEASES OF THE PEACH

The peach is attacked by a half-score or more diseases in New York,
two of which, yellows and little-peach, have this fruit quite at
their mercy, there being no preventive, antidote, nor means of
alleviation for either. Two other diseases, brown-rot and leaf-curl,
are always present and often bring disaster, their virulency depending
on locality, season, weather and variety, but both are amenable to
treatment and at most destroy only foliage and fruit, while yellows and
little-peach take their toll in trees. The several other diseases to be
discussed are either easily controlled or are of minor importance.

Yellows is a malignant disease or condition of the peach, very
contagious, usually virulent, of which we know neither cause, origin
nor cure. We know only its unmistakable symptoms, its terrible
consequences. The history of yellows, the circumstances of its coming
and its effects have been given in a foregoing chapter so that we need
to discuss now only the symptoms and means of preventing the direct
results of the disease.

In its later stages the symptoms are characteristic enough and cannot
be confounded with those of any other malady or condition of the
tree. The marks of yellows are: (1) Premature ripening of the fruit
accompanied by red blotches over the surface and red streaks running
through the flesh; (2) premature unfolding of leaf-buds into willowy
growths of tips and the production of shoots upon the trunk or main
branches with growths developing into bunchy tufts of yellow or reddish
foliage; (3) total discoloration of the foliage.

Prematureness in ripening varies from a few days to several weeks;
the earlier it occurs, the smaller the fruit. When diseased fruit
ripens near the normal season the peaches may be full size, showy to
voluptuousness and marked outwardly only by the hectic red of the
disease. The taste indicates the disease--in insipid, mawkish or bitter
specimens which show the red color and undersize of prematured peaches.
During the first season prematured fruit may show only on particular
branches or even on a single shoot which may not differ in appearance
from other parts of the tree. Prematureness, unaccompanied by other
symptoms of yellows, may be due to borers, drought, neglect, girdling
or similar causes.

The second symptom is the opening of winter-buds out of season.
This usually occurs a year later than the appearance of prematured,
red-colored fruits. The buds may push forth shortly after they have
formed in mid-summer while the tree-top is still bearing its fruit
and foliage or they may delay until the next spring, to appear a few
days in advance of normal leafing-time. Very often these buds begin
growth in the autumn after healthy leaves have fallen. Such diseased
buds may develop on tips of branches, especially water-sprouts, but
feeble, sickly shoots due to the disease usually appear in considerable
numbers on main limbs and on the trunk, no doubt under the influence of
the yellows on old resting buds buried deep in the bark of the wood.
Sometimes these yellow shoots are unbranched but oftener they are much
branched and frequently but bunchy tufts of foliage, stems slender,
leaves pale green, small, narrow and standing out stiffly at nearly
right angles to the stems.

In the final stage of the disease the trees assume the yellowish leaves
which give name to the trouble, though sometimes the yellow is tinged
with red. Yellows is an unfortunate name since so many other troubles
of the peach cause the foliage to take on the jaundiced appearance of
this disease. The third stage marks the beginning of the end--sometimes
three years, sometimes five or six, but always death sooner or later,
there being no instance on record of a diseased tree having been cured.

This, in brief, is the usual course of yellows, but it follows no
invariable rule in its development. Yellows is known to be spread as
a contagion by affected buds in nursery stock, by nursery-trees, by
orchard-trees, and may even be communicated by pits from affected
trees. That it must be caused or transmitted in still other ways is
apparent to all who have had experience with the disease. It seems
not, however, to linger in the soil, for trees may be set in the very
spots from whence diseased plants have been removed without danger to
the newcomer. "War to the knife and the knife to the hilt"--absolute
extermination, root and branch, by ax and fire, is the only known
method of subduing yellows.

Little-peach is possibly a variant of peach-yellows or, at least,
is very similar in nature. It seems to have been described first in
Michigan in the early nineties of the last century but had attacked
orchards in New York before that time so that it is now impossible to
say where it first appeared. Be that as it may, the disease is not now
the exclusive possession of either state but in the twenty years of its
history has become as widely distributed as yellows, covering about
the same territory, and seems now to be equally destructive. Outwardly
the disease differs from yellows chiefly: (1) In delayed rather than
premature ripening of the under-sized fruits of little-peach; (2) the
leaves usually show more green than in yellows and show a decided
tendency to droop or roll; (3) little-peach, as a rule, appears later
in the season than yellows; (4) the characteristic, sickly, wiry shoots
of yellows are seldom present in little-peach. Little-peach is kept at
bay, as in yellows, by extermination of affected trees.

Rosette, though distinct in most of its symptoms from yellows and
little-peach, is clearly similar in nature, is just as virulent and
contagious, is communicated in the same ways and requires the same
treatment. On trees affected with rosette the fruits shrivel and drop
and tufts or rosettes of leaves develop freely. Rosette is not found in
New York nor north of the Potomac and hence is of but passing interest
to peach-growers in this State.

Brown-rot (_Sclerotinia fructigena_ (Persoon) Schroeter), known also as
fruit-mold and ripe-rot, attacks flowers and shoots of the peach, but
is most conspicuous on the ripe or ripening fruits. Here its presence
is quickly detected by a dark discoloration of the skin which is
afterwards partly or wholly covered with pustule-like aggregations of
gray spores. The decayed fruits fall to the ground or more often hang
to the tree, becoming shriveled mummies, each mummy being a storehouse
of fungus threads and spores from which infestation spreads to the
next crop. The rot spreads with surprising rapidity on the fruits in
warm, damp weather either before the fruit is picked or in baskets
while being shipped or stored. Preventive remedies have so far met
with but indifferent success; probably the best method of control is
to destroy the mummy-like fruits and all other sources of infection
either by picking them from the trees, or much better by plowing them
under deeply. Even so it is impossible to exterminate all of the
countless myriads of brown-rot spores. Spraying with the self-boiled
lime-sulphur mixture three times at intervals of three weeks, beginning
as the calyxes drop, is the appointed preventive but the results are
uncertain, as this is one of the diseases in which it is difficult to
touch the spot in spraying. Varieties of peaches show various degrees
of susceptibility to brown-rot.

Peach leaf-curl (_Exoascus deformans_ (Berk.) Fuckel) is the best-known
and probably the most prevalent fungus disease of the peach in New
York. The disease appears in early spring as the leaves unfold and
continues until warm, dry, summer weather prevails. The name describes
the disease so that all may know it--the leaves curl, then become
puckered, distorted and much thickened, turn from normal green to
yellow, tinged with red, and finally fall. In severe cases the trees
may be defoliated, though a second covering of leaves almost always
comes out. Leaf-curl is most prevalent and most virulent in cool,
moist weather. The disease is easily controlled by spraying with
lime-sulphur, bordeaux mixture or any other good fungicide applied
while the trees are dormant.

In common with other species of Prunus the foliage of peaches is
attacked by several fungi which produce diseased spots on the
leaves, the dead areas usually dropping out leaving holes as if
punctured by shot, giving the names "shot-hole fungus," "leaf-spot"
and "leaf-blight." Two fungi are in the main responsible for these
leaf-troubles, _Cylindrosporium padi_ Karsten and _Cercospora
circumscissa_ Saccardo. The ravages of these fungi are prevented by the
use of the self-boiled lime-sulphur mixture. With these, as with other
fungi, cultivation has a salutary effect as it destroys diseased leaves
which harbor the fungi during their resting period and keeps the trees
vigorous enough to resist the fungi.

Peach-scab (_Cladosporium carpophilum_ Thüm.) is a common and
destructive fungus in peach-growing districts on the Atlantic seaboard
and is found rather frequently in New York but seldom does much injury
in the State. It appears in sooty, black spots and blotches on the
surface of the peach, causing atrophy and hardening of the parts
affected which, in severe cases, crack badly. Twigs and leaves may be
affected. White-fleshed sorts suffer most and are ruined for the market
even in mild attacks. Self-boiled lime and sulphur, if it does not
wholly prevent infections, at least alleviates the trouble.

Peach-growers in New York are much plagued by a mildew yet suffer
small loss from it, though the disease greatly injures peach-foliage
in some regions. The delicate, white or grayish powder, giving the
name "powdery mildew," consists of the spores and mycelium of a
fungus (_Sphærotheca pannosa_ (Wallroth) Léveillé) which attacks the
leaves of several species of Prunus causing them to curl and crinkle
and sometimes to drop. It occurs most often when there are sudden
changes in temperature. When treatment is necessary, the self-boiled
lime-sulphur mixture is used.

In common with all tree-fruits, the peach is attacked by crown-gall
(_Bacterium tumefaciens_ Smith and Townsend). In New York crown-gall
seldom greatly injures old trees but nursery plants are sometimes
girdled by the galls, seriously injuring them. Badly diseased young
plants, therefore, should not be planted. The galls are tumor-like
structures, usually at the juncture of top and root, which vary from
the size of a pea to that of a large egg, forming at maturity rough,
knotty, dark-colored masses. Neither preventive nor cure is known.
Planting diseased trees is not a safe practice, nor should the peach
be set in ground known to have recently had trees badly infected. The
raspberry is a common carrier of crown-gall and should not be planted
as an inter-crop in a peach-orchard.

The peach suffers more or less from an excessive flow of gum. This
gumming is usually a secondary effect of injuries caused by fungi,
bacteria, insects, frost, sunscald, and mechanical agencies. There
is a good deal of difference in the susceptibilities of varieties to
this trouble, sorts having hard wood suffering less than those having
soft wood. There is less gumming, too, on trees in soils favoring
the maturity of wood, under conditions where sun and frost are not
injurious, and, obviously, in orchards where by good care the primary
causes of the diseases are kept out.


INSECTS ATTACKING THE PEACH

The peach has its full share of troublesome insects, entomologists
listing about forty species, at least half of which are either
destructive or annoying in New York. The peach cannot undergo hardships
and once it is beset by parasites, it does not prosper. No small
part of the peach-grower's time, therefore, is spent in combating
the insect-pests of his trees. The several pestiferous species vary
greatly in importance, the peach-borer probably holding first place in
destructiveness.

The peach-borer (_Sanninoidea exitiosa_ Say) is probably the commonest
and is certainly the most ancient enemy of the peach in America. It
is found everywhere east of the Rocky Mountains and, since it is a
native, its natural host being the wild species of Prunus, it has been
a parasite on the peach from the earliest introduction of this fruit.
All in all, it is the most destructive insect-pest of the peach, its
presence always endangering the life of the tree. All peach-growers
know the peach-borer. It is a white, grub-like caterpillar with a
yellowish, shield-like head, which lives and feeds in the trunk of
the peach just below the surface of the ground, eating out irregular
chambers and galleries underneath the bark, sometimes girdling the
trees. The pest is easily discovered through the exudation from the
infested part of gum mixed with borings and excreta. The borers are
found at all times in the summer, usually very small in late summer
and autumn but an inch or more in length in early summer. The borer
is a larva of a wasp-like moth which lays its eggs in early summer;
these hatch in from seven to ten days and the minute borers work their
way into the tree. The moth may be deterred somewhat from depositing
her eggs by thorough cultivation, mounding the trees and, according
to some, by the use of obnoxious coverings or poisonous washes on the
trunk. Preventive measures are seldom sufficiently effective, however,
and the borers must be destroyed. This is best done by digging them out
with a knife or wire--"worming" in the parlance of the peach-grower.

The lesser peach-borer (_Sesia pictipes_ Grote & Robinson) is rather
infrequently found infesting the peach in New York. It usually attacks
only old trees or those showing injury from freezing or other causes.
The borer is much like the common peach-borer, described in the
foregoing paragraph, but is smaller, seldom reaching the length of
four-fifths of an inch. Unlike the true borer, it infests the trunks
as well as the crowns of peach-trees, feeding in much the same way.
Fortunately the pest is not common in the State, for it is rather
difficult to control, since not only the crown but the trunk must be
reached in worming for the pest.

The plum-curculio (_Conotrachelus nenuphar_ Herbst) is sometimes a
troublesome pest of the peach. It is a rough, grayish, hump-backed
snout-beetle somewhat less than a quarter of an inch in length, an
insect so familiar to fruit-growers as hardly to need description. The
female beetle pierces the skin of the young peaches and places an egg
in the puncture. About this cavity she gouges out a crescent-shaped
trench, the puncture and trench making the star and crescent of the
Ottoman Empire, hence the common name, "Little Turk." The egg-laying
process may be repeated in a number of fruits and from each egg a larva
hatches within a week and burrows to the stone, making a wormy fruit.
Most of the infested fruits drop. Poisoning with an arsenate is the
chief means of combating the pest. Rubbish and vegetation offer hiding
places and hibernating quarters for the insects and hence cultivated
orchards are most free from curculio. The thin-skinned nectarines are
damaged most by the insect but peaches are attacked rather freely.
Early peaches suffer much more than late ones from curculio; thus,
of standard sorts in New York, Greensboro and Carman are usually
injured more or less while Salwey and Chili seldom show a puncture.
The plum-orchard is usually the source of supply of curculio and early
peaches ought not, therefore, be set with or near plums.

San Jose scale (_Aspidiotus perniciosus_ Comstock) is as harmful to
peaches as to any other tree-fruit. The insect is now so well known
in all fruit-growing regions as scarcely to need description. It is
usually first recognized by its work, evidence of its presence being
dead or dying twigs--oftentimes the whole tree is moribund. Examination
shows the twigs or trees to be covered with myriads of minute scales,
the size of a small pin-head, which give the infested bark a scurfy,
ashy look. If the bark be cut or scraped, a reddish discoloration is
found. Leaves and fruit as well as bark are infested, the insidious
pest, however, usually first gaining a foothold on the trunk or a
large branch. Reproduction is continuous throughout the summer in this
climate so that the insects multiply by leaps and bounds. The peach,
possibly, succumbs more quickly than any other fruit, three years
sufficing for the destruction of a young orchard if the pest be brought
in on nursery stock. The rougher-barked, older trees resist longer and
suffer less injury. Still, old orchards are irretrievably ruined in
one or two seasons of unrestricted breeding. Peach-growers, in common
with all fruit-growers, find the lime-sulphur solution applied in the
dormant season the most effective spray in combating this insect.
There are several insect-enemies of the scale that are valuable allies
and entomologists say that the insects seem more susceptible to the
climatic condition of the country than formerly but still natural
checks are far from sufficient and the peach-grower should quickly
attack with the spray-nozzle at the first appearance of scale.

Besides the San Jose there are several other scales more or less
abundant in New York orchards, two of which make the peach their
favorite host. These are the West Indian peach-scale (_Aulacaspis
pentagona_ Targioni) and the Peach-Lecanium (_Eulecanium
nigrofasciatum_ Pergande). Neither, however, is very troublesome as far
north as New York and both are kept well under control by the treatment
for the more common San Jose. The Lecanium is responsible for the
discolored, sooty peaches occasionally found in parts of the State;
for, though the discoloration is caused by a soot-fungus, the fungus
lives in the honey-dew of the scale.

The black peach-aphis (_Aphis persicæ-niger_ E. F. Smith) is sometimes
a serious pest in light peach-soils in New York but is not nearly as
troublesome here as it is in states having a larger proportion of
sandy land since it seems to find life easiest in light, warm soils.
The insect is an intensely black, shining louse with brownish legs.
It lives underground more than above ground, maintaining itself for
most part on the tender roots of newly set or nursery trees, being
found only occasionally on shoots and foliage. An expert eye detects
the presence of the lice by the sparse and jaundiced foliage of young
trees which an untrained eye would say were down with incipient
yellows--indeed countless numbers of young trees have been sacrificed
to the yellow's pyre when they suffered only from lice on the roots.
The pest is easily detected on stock received from nurseries--the chief
source of infestation--and the trees may be dipped or fumigated as for
San Jose scale, thus completely exterminating the aphids. Good culture
and a dressing of some fertilizer will help to carry young orchards
through an infestation though treatment to a dose of a pound of ground
tobacco stems worked in the soil about the roots may be necessary.

There is, too, a green plant-louse (_Myzus persicae_ Sulzer) more or
less common on peaches in the State every season. It is very similar in
appearance to the green aphis of the apple and other plants and makes
its presence known by much the same effect on the leaves. It works on
the underside of the leaves along the veins, causing the leaves to
pucker, curl and crinkle much as with leaf-curl. This green louse,
however, is seldom numerous or harmful enough on peaches to require
treatment. Should treatment be required, no doubt nicotine, now the
standard remedy for aphids on foliage, would keep the pest under.

The fruit-tree bark-beetle (_Eccoptogaster rugulosus_ Ratzeburg), known
in New York as the shot-hole borer, is often a serious menace to old
or decrepit peach-trees. The beetle is a small, cylindrical insect an
eighth of an inch long, one-third as wide, the body uniformly black and
the surface closely and deeply pitted and punctured, the punctures on
the wing-covers arranged in rows. Injury to the peach by this insect is
first indicated by exudation of gum from trunk and branches and later
by numerous small, round holes as if the tree had been struck by shot.
Healthy, vigorous trees are seldom attacked and if so the larvae do not
develop, but a peach-tree suffering a decline from any cause whatsoever
is open to immediate attack and once the pest gains foothold the plant
is doomed. Here, indeed, an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of
cure, for keeping the orchard constantly in healthy, vigorous condition
to avoid accidental introduction, and prompt removal and destruction
of infested trees, both preventive measures, constitute the only
satisfactory treatment.

The peach twig-borer (_Anarsia lineatella_ Zell.) imported from Europe,
has at times been a troublesome pest of the peach in parts of the
United States but causes little injury in New York. Still, it can be
found every year in nearly every peach-district in the State and needs,
therefore, to be guarded against since it may some time appear in
sufficient numbers to become formidable. The adult is a moth the larva
of which is about one-half inch long, pinkish in color. This larva
is the borer and in early spring attacks tender shoots boring down
into the pith. It passes from one succulent shoot to another so that
often many wilted shoots may be examined before the borer is found.
Fortunately peach-trees send out shoots about as rapidly as this pest
can destroy them so that in New York, at least, unless the tree is much
weakened in vitality, not much harm is done. The twig-borer has small
chance in a well-kept orchard, but, should it attain headway, prompt
treatment with arsenate of lead will at once cut short its career.

Occasionally complaints come that the common rose-bug or rose-chafer
(_Macrodactylus subspinosus_ Fabricius) is at work on the peach.
Leaves, flowers and fruits are eaten. The fuzz on the epidermis of the
fruit is a deterrent but once a beetle gets through into the flesh, a
dozen more join in the banquet and the peach is quickly ruined. Now and
then one hears of a crop destroyed by the beetle. Insecticides seldom
avail, for the insects are very resistant to poisons. The insects breed
only in waste places and hence they may be looked for in the orchards
of the sloven or where slovenly kept fields adjoin. Cultivation and
sanitation are, then, the preventives. In New York rose-bugs are
abundant only in warm, sandy soils.




CHAPTER V

LEADING VARIETIES OF PEACHES


ADMIRAL DEWEY

    =1.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:232. 1898. =2.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._
    =30=:14. 1905. =3.= Albertson-Hobbs _Cat._ 29. 1906.

    _Admiral._ =4.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:335. 1903.

    _Dewey._ =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1909. =6.= Waugh _Am.
    Peach Orch._ 201. 1913.


Perhaps the peach most of all desired nowadays by peach-growers is
a very early, yellow-fleshed freestone. For years Admiral Dewey and
Triumph, both seedlings of Alexander, have been grown to fill this
place and both, in the main, fail. Admiral Dewey, while early, yellow
in flesh and good in quality, is not always a freestone and has several
other defects which make it nearly worthless as a commercial fruit.
Thus, though the trees are very productive, the peaches run small, are
so heavily pubescent as to be unattractive, are very susceptible to
brown-rot and are often disfigured with the peach-scab. The trees, too,
suffer much from leaf-curl. With Alexander as the parent, the trees
should be hardy, and from behavior elsewhere, must be so rated; but
they have not proved exceptionally so on our grounds. While nowhere
largely planted, Admiral Dewey is often set, as no doubt it should be,
for an early peach in the home orchard. Of the two early sorts, this
variety stands shipment rather better than Triumph. The varieties are
of about the same season, both coming a week or thereabouts later than
the well-known Alexander.

Admiral Dewey was grown from a seed of Alexander by J. D. Husted,
Vineyard, Georgia, in the latter part of the Nineteenth Century. It was
introduced in 1899 by Mr. Husted and has since been grown commercially
east and west, north and south. The American Pomological Society placed
the variety on its fruit-list in 1909 as Dewey but the full name
bestowed to commemorate the great Admiral should, we think, be retained.

[Illustration: ADMIRAL DEWEY]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, hardy, very
    productive; trunk thick, smooth; branches stocky, reddish-brown
    mingled with light ash-gray; branchlets slender, long,
    olive-green overspread with dark red, glossy, smooth, glabrous,
    with numerous lenticels, raised near the base.

    Leaves six inches long, one and one-half inches wide, folded
    upward, oval to obovate-lanceolate, thin; upper surface
    olive-green, smooth except near the midrib; lower surface light
    grayish-green; margin finely serrate, tipped with reddish-brown
    glands; petiole one-fourth inch long, with one to seven large,
    reniform, greenish-yellow glands variable in position.

    Flower-buds small, short, conical, pubescent, plump, free;
    blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers pink, one and one-half
    inches across, well distributed, usually in twos; pedicels
    short, thick, glabrous, green; calyx-tube dull reddish-green,
    orange-colored within, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes
    short, broad, obtuse, glabrous within, slightly pubescent
    without; petals round-ovate, tapering to short, broad claws red
    at the base; filaments one-half inch long, shorter than the
    petals; pistil pubescent at the ovary, equal to the stamens in
    length.

    Fruit matures early; two and one-fourth inches long, two and
    one-half inches wide, round-oblate, slightly compressed; cavity
    deep, wide, abrupt, with tender skin; suture shallow, becoming
    deeper at the extremities; apex roundish or flattened, with
    mucronate tip variable in size; color deep orange-yellow,
    blushed with dark red, indistinctly splashed and mottled;
    pubescence heavy; skin thin, tender, adherent to the pulp;
    flesh yellow, tinged with red near the pit, juicy, stringy,
    tender, melting, sweet but sprightly; good in quality;
    stone semi-free to free, one and one-fourth inches long,
    seven-eighths inch wide, oval to obovate, flattened at the
    base, tapering to a short point, with grooved surfaces; ventral
    suture deeply grooved along the sides, wide; dorsal suture a
    deep, wide groove.


ALEXANDER

    =1.= _Cult. & Count. Gent._ =38=:598. 1873. =2.= _Mich. Hort.
    Soc. Rpt._ 263, 264. 1874. =3.= _Gard. Mon._ =17=:367, 368.
    1875. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 28. 1877. =5.= _Gard. Mon._
    =19=:147, 303. 1877. =6.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 436. 1884. =7.=
    _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 424. 1886. =8.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._
    =39=:809, figs. 5 & 9. 1896. =9.= _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta. Rpt._
    =6=:21 fig. 1899. =10.= Fulton _Peach Cult._ 173. 1908. =11.=
    Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 198. 1913. =12.= _U. S. D. A. Plant
    Immigrants_ =117=:958. 1916.

    _Alexander's Early._ =13.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 75, 76. 1873.
    =14.= _Horticulturist_ =28=:224. 1873.


For nearly a half-century Alexander has been one of the notable early
peaches on this continent, hardiness and vigor of tree contributing
with earliness to make the variety popular. Unfortunately, there are
few fruit-characters to commend Alexander; the peaches run small,
the flesh clings to the stone and is so tender that the two can be
separated only with difficulty, and the quality is poor. Added to
the defects of the fruit the trees have the grave fault of being
unproductive. The fruits, too, are very susceptible to brown-rot but to
offset this weakness, the trees are more resistant to leaf-curl than
those of the average variety. Alexander has been more or less grown in
every peach-region on this continent, sometimes attaining considerable
commercial importance, but is now widely cultivated only on the Pacific
Slope, and even here it is evidently destined to pass out before many
years in the competition with newer and better sorts. It is often
confused with Amsden though the two are quite distinct.

Alexander originated soon after the Civil War on the farm of O. A.
Alexander, Mount Pulaski, Illinois. Since 1877 it has been on the
fruit-list of the American Pomological Society. It has been the parent
of a score or more of meritorious extra-early peaches.

[Illustration: ALEXANDER]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, hardy, unproductive;
    trunk stocky, smooth; branches reddish-brown overlaid with
    light ash-gray; branchlets medium to long, olive-green overlaid
    on the sunny side with dark red, smooth, glabrous, with
    conspicuous, large, raised lenticels.

    Leaves six inches long, one and one-half inches wide, folded
    upward, oval-lanceolate, thin, leathery; upper surface dark
    green, smooth; lower surface light grayish-green; margin finely
    serrate, tipped with dark red glands; petiole three-eighths
    inch long, glandless or with one to four small, usually
    globose, greenish-yellow glands tipped with red, variable in
    position.

    Flower-buds oblong-conic, pubescent, usually free; blooming
    season early; flowers pale pink, one and seven-sixteenths
    inches across, in well-distributed clusters; pedicels very
    short, thick, glabrous, greenish; calyx-tube dull green, light
    yellowish within, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes short,
    broad, acute, glabrous within, slightly pubescent without;
    petals roundish, often broadly notched near the base, tapering
    to short, broad claws marked with red; filaments nearly
    one-half inch long; pistil pubescent at the ovary, equal to the
    stamens in length.

    Fruit matures very early; two and one-eighth inches long, two
    and one-fourth inches wide, round, slightly compressed, with
    sides nearly equal; cavity deep, abrupt or slightly flaring;
    suture shallow; apex depressed, ending in a mucronate or
    small, mamelon, recurved tip; color greenish-white becoming
    creamy-white, blushed and blotched with dark red, mottled;
    pubescence short; skin separates readily from the pulp; flesh
    greenish-white, juicy, stringy, sweet, very mild; fair to good
    in quality; stone clinging, one and one-fourth inches long,
    five-eighths inch thick, oval, plump, faintly winged, abruptly
    pointed at the apex, with slightly pitted surfaces and with a
    few grooves; ventral suture deeply grooved along the sides,
    bulged; dorsal suture deeply furrowed, faintly winged.


ALTON

    =1.= _Ill. Hort Soc. Rpt._ 181. 1898. =2.= _Rural N. Y._
    =60=:726, 774. 1901. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 35. 1909. =4.=
    _N. Y. State Fr. Gr. Assoc. Rpt._ 21. 1912.

    _Minnie._ =5.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:30. 1895. =6.= _Tex.
    Sta. Bul._ =39=:813. 1896. =7.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 53.
    1896. =8.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:220. 1899. =9.= Budd-Hansen
    _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:351, 352. 1903.

Alton is everywhere held in high esteem as an early mid-season,
white-fleshed, semi-free peach. It merits the esteem bestowed upon it
by virtue of large size, handsome appearance and high quality of the
peaches and hardiness and productiveness in the trees. It ripens a
little earlier than Champion, long the favorite white-fleshed peach of
its season, does not rot so readily when brown-rot is rife and hangs
longer on the tree in good condition. It is not, however, quite so
choicely good in quality as Champion, nor, on the Station grounds at
least, are the trees quite as productive. Other faults of Alton are
that leaf-curl takes heavy toll on unsprayed trees, the blossoms open
so early as often to be caught by spring frosts, and the peaches show
great variation in size and shape and even in texture and flavor.
The accompanying cut shows the beauty of the outside but unfortunately
on the grounds of this Station the variety is almost a clingstone so
that the stone could not be separated to permit photographing the
creamy-white flesh, red at pit, and, all in all, most tempting to the
eye. Alton seems to be most at home in the Middle West and South and is
not a familiar inhabitant of eastern orchards as a commercial product.

This variety originated with T. V. Munson, Denison, Texas, a
quarter-century ago and was introduced by him under the name Minnie. By
some it is supposed to have come from Alton, Illinois, and to have been
introduced as Emma but this is an error. Munson's Minnie was tested at
the Illinois Experiment Station from which place Stark Brothers Nursery
Company, Louisiana, Missouri, received it and propagated it under the
name Alton. In 1909 the American Pomological Society placed the variety
upon its list of fruits as Alton, a name which usage makes preferable
to the first one, Minnie.

[Illustration: ALTON]

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, hardy, medium in
    productiveness; trunk very stocky; branches thick,
    reddish-bronze overlaid with light ash-gray; branchlets
    slender, long, olive-green mingled with dull red, smooth,
    glabrous, with many small, inconspicuous lenticels.

    Leaves six and one-fourth inches long, one and three-fourths
    inches wide, folded upward, oval-lanceolate, broad; upper
    surface dark green, rugose at the base; lower surface light
    grayish-green; margin finely serrate, tipped with dark glands;
    petiole three-eighths inch long, with two to four reniform
    glands, greenish-yellow, tipped with dull red, variable in
    position.

    Flower-buds small, short, conical, usually appressed, heavily
    pubescent; season of bloom early; flowers pale pink, nearly
    two inches across; borne usually singly; pedicels very short,
    glabrous, green; calyx-tube dull reddish-green, tinged with
    greenish-yellow within, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes
    acute to slightly obtuse, glabrous within, heavily pubescent
    without; petals roundish-oval, with blunt apex, frequently
    notched near the base, tapering to narrow claws; filaments
    one-half inch long; pistil pubescent at the ovary, as long as
    the stamens.

    Fruit matures in early mid-season; two and five-sixteenths
    inches long, two and five-eighths inches thick, round-oblate,
    slightly compressed, with unequal halves; cavity abrupt or
    slightly flaring; suture of medium depth; apex roundish,
    mucronate; color creamy-white overspread with dull red, dotted
    and splashed with carmine; pubescence thin, short; skin tough,
    adhering slightly to the pulp; flesh white, juicy, stringy,
    tender, pleasantly subacid; fair in quality; stone semi-cling,
    one and three-eighths inches long, seven-eighths inch wide,
    obovate, plump at the apex, winged near the base, with pitted
    surfaces; ventral suture deeply grooved along the sides,
    narrow; dorsal suture deeply grooved.


ARP

    =1.= _N. Y. State Fr. Gr. Assoc. Rpt._ 24. 1913.

    _Arp Beauty._ =2.= _N. J. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 100. 1911. =3.= _N.
    Y. State Fr. Gr. Assoc. Rpt._ 213. 1913. =4.= _N. Y. Sta. Bul._
    =364=:183. 1913.

Arp is the earliest good yellow peach. This is the chief reason for
its cultivation though it has other good characters beside earliness
to give it a place among yellow peaches. At this Station the trees are
healthy, vigorous, productive and hardier in bud than the average, the
buds having withstood the cold of two test winters. The round-oval
shape and shallow suture give it a pleasing appearance of rotundity.
To its shapeliness, add a skin creamy-yellow, heavily blushed with red
and covered with short, thick pubescence with the sheen of velvet, and
you have a beautiful peach--well shown in the color-plate. The flesh
is light yellow, firm, juicy, sweet, rich, and of excellent quality,
but unfortunately clings rather tenaciously to the stone. The season of
Arp is from a month to five weeks earlier than Elberta and for so early
a peach is remarkably long. It is somewhat susceptible to brown-rot.
We do not know from experience how the fruit will ship but believe it
will stand the wear and tear of transportation and markets as well as
any of the standard peaches. Arp ought to be in every home orchard.
Attention is called to the fact that the June Elberta in the hands of
some growers is Arp.

Arp originated with C. P. Orr, Arp, Texas, about 1897. Elberta is
supposed to have been one of the parents while the other may have
been a peach of the Indian type. The variety was introduced by the
originator about 1902.

[Illustration: ARP]

    Tree rather large, vigorous, spreading, hardy, productive;
    trunk stocky, intermediate in smoothness; branches thick,
    smooth, reddish-bronze overlaid with light ash-gray; branchlets
    with internodes intermediate in length, pinkish-red mingled
    with green, smooth, glabrous, with many smallish lenticels.

    Leaves six and one-fourth inches long, one and one-half inches
    wide, folded upward, oval-lanceolate, sometimes inclined to
    obovate, thin, somewhat leathery; upper surface dark green;
    lower surface grayish-green; margin finely serrate, tipped with
    reddish-brown glands; petiole three-eighths inch long, with
    one to three large, reniform, greenish-yellow or reddish-brown
    glands usually at the base of the leaf.

    Flower-buds intermediate in size and length, plump,
    oblong-conic, pubescent, appressed; blossoms opening in
    mid-season; flowers light pink, one and three-fourths inches
    across; borne seldom in twos; pedicels short, glabrous, green;
    calyx-tube dark reddish-green, dull orange within, campanulate,
    glabrous; calyx-lobes long, medium in width, obtuse to
    acute, glabrous within, heavily pubescent without; petals
    round-obovate, usually broadly notched on each side of the
    base, tapering to short, narrow claws; filaments one-half inch
    long; pistil glabrous, pubescent at the ovary, equal to the
    stamens in length.

    Fruit matures early; two and one-sixteenth inches long, two
    and one-eighth inches wide, oval to round, compressed, the
    halves unequal; cavity medium to deep, wide, abrupt; suture
    shallow, deeper at the base; apex roundish or depressed,
    with a mucronate tip; color greenish-yellow changing to deep
    yellow, heavily blushed with red, indistinctly striped, with
    conspicuous, large dots; pubescence short, stiff, thick;
    skin thick, tough, adhering to the pulp; flesh light yellow
    mingled with faint stripes of red radiating from the pit,
    juicy, stringy, tender, sweet, highly flavored; very good in
    quality; stone clinging, one and three-sixteenths inches long,
    three-fourths inch wide, narrow-oval, plump, with short, acute
    apex, the surfaces pitted and with few short grooves; ventral
    suture slightly winged, rather widely furrowed; dorsal suture a
    deep, narrow groove.


BELLE

    =1.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:233. 1898. =2.= _Am. Gard._ =21=:852.
    1900. =3.= _Ga. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:308. 1900. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 35. 1909.

    _Belle of Georgia._ =5.= _Am. Gard._ =17=:67. 1896. =6.= _Ohio
    Sta. Bul._ =170=:172, 173 fig. 1906.

    _Georgia._ =7.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 33. 1899. =8.= _Del. Sta.
    Rpt._ =13=:99, 100 fig. 5. 1901.

Belle elicits praise from all who know it because of the great
beauty of its fruits. At its best it is one of the glories of the
peach-orchard, the fruits being large, trim in contour, creamy-white,
with a beautiful crimson cheek--truly voluptuous in form and color.
The color-plate--made in a poor season--falls far short of doing the
fruits justice in size and art cannot depict the soft tints of red and
cream which make Belle so beautiful. The fruits are as enticing to the
eye inwardly as outwardly, the white flesh being delicately marbled,
tinted with red at the pit and the flesh and pit usually part cleanly.
Unfortunately, appearance misrepresents quality; for the variety, while
good, falls short in flavor, and the flesh is stringy so that it must
be rated as not above the average for its type. The trees are large,
open-headed, a little straggling, fast-growing and hardy, though, like
most of its type, easy prey to leaf-curl. Belle prefers a southern
climate and in the South is often a good commercial sort but in New
York is grown only for local markets and home use, hardly equalling
Champion as a white-fleshed peach for distant markets.

Belle came from a seed of Chinese Cling planted in 1870 by L. A.
Rumph, Marshallville, Georgia. The other parent is unknown but it is
supposed to have been Oldmixon Free, a tree of which stood near the
Chinese Cling tree. The variety came to notice about the same time as
Elberta and has been thought by some to be a seedling of Elberta. The
American Pomological Society listed Belle in its catalog in 1899 as
Georgia but in 1909 changed the name to Belle and it is so designated
in horticultural treatises but popularly it is "Belle of Georgia."

[Illustration: BELLE]

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, open-topped, hardy, very
    productive; trunk thick; branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown
    covered with light ash-gray; branchlets thick, medium to long,
    olive-green overlaid with dark red, smooth, glabrous, with
    numerous conspicuous, rather small lenticels.

    Leaves five and one-half inches long, one and one-half inches
    wide, folded upward, oblong-lanceolate, somewhat leathery;
    upper surface dark green, smooth; lower surface light
    grayish-green; margin coarsely serrate, tipped with dark red
    glands; petiole three-eighths inch long, with two to six
    large, reniform or globose, greenish-yellow glands variable in
    position.

    Flower-buds large, long, oval, very plump, strongly pubescent,
    usually appressed; blooming season early; flowers pale pink
    but deeper in color along the edges, one and three-eighths
    inches across, often in twos; pedicels long, thick;
    calyx-tube dull reddish-green, yellowish within, campanulate,
    glabrous; calyx-lobes medium in length and width, acute to
    obtuse, glabrous within, heavily pubescent without; petals
    roundish-oval, tapering to short, broad claws red at the base;
    filaments nearly one-half inch long; pistil pubescent at the
    ovary, longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and one-sixteenth inches long,
    two and one-eighth inches wide, roundish-oval, often bulged
    near the apex, somewhat compressed, with halves nearly equal;
    cavity abrupt or somewhat flaring, red, with tender skin;
    suture shallow, deepening toward the apex; apex roundish to
    slightly pointed, with a mucronate tip; color greenish-white
    changing to creamy-white, blushed with red, with faint stripes
    and splashes of darker red, mottled; pubescence short, fine,
    rather thick; skin thin, tender, adherent to the pulp; flesh
    white, tinged with red at the pit and with radiating rays of
    red, juicy, stringy, tender, sweet, mild; good in quality;
    stone semi-free to free, one and one-eighth inches long,
    thirteen-sixteenths inch wide, oval, bulged near the apex,
    blunt at the base, with short, sharp point at the apex, with
    deeply-pitted surfaces; ventral suture deeply furrowed along
    the sides, wide; dorsal suture a narrow groove.


BEQUETTE FREE

    =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:32. 1895. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 35. 1909.

    _Bequett Free._ =3.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 41. 1895. =4.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 32. 1899. =5.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort.
    Man._ =2=:337. 1903.

    _Becquette Free._ =6.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:806. 1896. =7.=
    _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:91. 1901.

As it grows at this Station, Bequette Free makes a favorable impression
because of the flavor and attractive appearance of the fruit. It is not
a new variety, however, and the fact that it seems to have been rather
widely and well tested without receiving general commendation except
on the Pacific Slope is against its having a place in the list of
desirable peaches for the Eastern States. The trees are fast-growing,
very vigorous, hardy and densely clothed with foliage but cannot be
called fruitful and are, possibly, a little too susceptible
to leaf-curl. The color-plate shows the fruit to be a little more
irregular than it is in nature.

This variety originated about 1860 in a seedling orchard of Benjamin
Bequette, Visalia, California. J. H. Thomas of the same place named
the sort and first propagated it about 1877. In 1899 the American
Pomological Society added the variety to its list of fruits under the
name Bequett Free but in 1909 corrected the spelling to Bequette Free.

[Illustration: BEQUETTE FREE]

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, open-topped, hardy, rather
    unproductive; trunk thick, smooth; branches stocky, smooth,
    reddish-brown mingled with light ash-gray; branchlets slender,
    long, olive-green mingled with dark red, smooth, glabrous, with
    numerous large and small, inconspicuous, raised lenticels.

    Leaves very numerous, six and three-fourths inches long, one
    and three-fourths inches wide, folded upward, oval-lanceolate
    inclined to broad-obovate, leathery; upper surface very
    dark green, smooth or slightly rugose; lower surface light
    grayish-green; margin coarsely serrate, tipped with dark
    glands; petiole three-eighths inch long, with two to five
    large, reniform, greenish-yellow glands variable in position.

    Flower-buds large, long, oblong-conic, plump, pointed, heavily
    pubescent, usually appressed; blossoms appear in mid-season;
    flowers light to dark pink, nearly one and one-fourth inches
    across, borne in ones and twos; pedicels short, thick,
    glabrous, green; calyx-tube reddish-green, light yellow within,
    campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes rather short, medium to
    narrow, nearly acute, pubescent within, heavily pubescent
    without; petals roundish-oval, slightly notched near the base,
    tapering to short, narrow claws tinged with red at the base;
    filaments nearly one-half inch long, shorter than the petals;
    pistil heavily pubescent at the ovary, longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and one-half inches long,
    two and three-eighths inches wide, round-oval, compressed,
    often with unequal sides; cavity small, deep, abrupt or
    flaring, often tinged with red; suture shallow, deepening
    toward the apex; apex roundish, depressed at the center, with
    a small, recurved, mamelon tip; color greenish-white mingled
    with yellow, blushed, splashed and blotched with dark red;
    pubescence thick, long, coarse; skin thin, tough, separates
    readily from the pulp; flesh white, slightly tinged with red
    near the pit, juicy, stringy, tender and melting, pleasantly
    flavored, sprightly; good to very good in quality; stone nearly
    free, one and three-eighths inches long, seven-eighths inch
    wide, oval, with a short-pointed apex, medium in plumpness,
    with deeply pitted and slightly grooved surfaces; ventral
    suture slightly bulged near the apex, deeply furrowed along the
    edges, narrow; dorsal suture grooved.


BERENICE

    =1.= _La. Sta. Bul._ =3=:44. 1890. =2.= _Ibid._ =27=:941. 1894.
    =3.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:806. 1896. =4.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._
    4=2=:233. 1898. =5.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:92. 1901. =6.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =194=:45. 1901. =7.= Berckmans _Cat._ 10.
    1912-13.

When at its best Berenice is hardly surpassed in quality by any other
peach but it seems capricious, in the North at least, and this, with
the fact that it is none too attractive in coloring, is probably
the reason why the variety is not more grown. The trees are about
all that could be desired, falling short chiefly in not being as
productive as several other peaches of its season and in being a little
susceptible to leaf-curl. The variety has been offered to fruit-growers
a sufficient length of time to have had its merits well tried as a
commercial peach and the fact that it is not now largely grown is
presumptive evidence that it has little commercial value. Its high
quality makes the variety a good sort for the home collection at least.

Berenice originated some thirty or more years ago with the late Dr. L.
E. Berckmans of Augusta, Georgia. It is supposed to have sprung from
the pit of a General Lee tree which grew in one of Mr. Berckmans' test
orchards. In the Berckmans nursery catalog it is stated of Berenice
that after thirty years' trial "there is nothing equal to it in the
same season."

[Illustration: BERENICE]

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, open-topped, hardy, medium to
    productive; trunk stocky; branches thick, smooth, reddish-brown
    mingled with light ash-gray; branchlets with short internodes,
    dark red overlaid with olive-green, smooth, glabrous, with
    numerous large and small lenticels raised at the base.

    Leaves six inches long, one and five-eighths inches wide,
    folded upward, oval to obovate-lanceolate, leathery; upper
    surface dark green, smooth; lower surface light grayish-green;
    margin coarsely serrate, tipped with dark glands; petiole
    one-fourth inch long, with two to ten large, reniform,
    yellowish-green glands variable in position.

    Flower-buds large, oblong, slightly pointed, heavily pubescent,
    usually appressed; blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers
    one and three-sixteenths inches across, pale pink, tinged
    darker along the edges, well distributed; pedicels short,
    glabrous, green; calyx-tube red mingled with dull, dark green,
    orange-colored within, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes often
    broad, acute to obtuse, glabrous within, slightly pubescent or
    heavily pubescent without; petals round-ovate, broadly notched,
    tapering to short claws red at base; filaments three-eighths
    inch long, shorter than the petals; pistil pubescent at the
    ovary, longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and five-eighths inches
    long, two and one-half inches wide, round-oval, with halves
    often unequal; cavity deep, medium to wide, contracted around
    the sides, with tender skin, often blushed with red; suture
    shallow, deepening toward the apex; apex roundish or depressed,
    with a mucronate or mamelon tip; color greenish-yellow, blushed
    and splashed with red; pubescence short, medium fine; skin
    tough, separates from the pulp; flesh yellow, faintly tinted
    with red near the pit, stringy, tender and melting, sweet,
    mild, pleasant flavored; good in quality; stone nearly free,
    one and three-eighths inches long, fifteen-sixteenths inch
    wide, oval, plump, drawn out at the ends, usually with pitted
    surfaces; ventral suture deeply furrowed along the edges;
    dorsal suture deeply grooved, with sides slightly wing-like.


BLOOD CLING

    =1.= Bridgeman _Gard. Ass't_ Pt. =3=:109. 1857. =2.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 21. 1897. =3.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 199. 1913.

    _Blood Clingstone_. =4.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 17. 1820.
    =5.= Floy _Am. Fruits_ 411. 1825. =6.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._
    493, 494. 1845. =7.= _Ibid._ 601. 1869. =8.= Fulton _Peach
    Cult._ 201. 1908.

    _Blood Peach_. =9.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 197. 1841.

    _Indian Blood Cling._ =10.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 18. 1871.

    _Indian Blood._ =11.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:237. 1898.

Blood Cling is the favorite curiosity of the peach-orchard and as such
we accord it a color-plate and a full description in _The Peaches of
New York_. Unfortunately, the beet-red color of the flesh could not be
reproduced with sufficient accuracy to make the attempt satisfactory.
It is a pleasant peach to eat out of hand and is much used for pickling
and preserving, for which purposes it has real merit. The round-headed,
compact tree might make the variety a desirable parent in breeding new
peaches.

This peach is an American seedling raised many years ago from the
Blood Clingstone of the French. The fruit is much larger than that of
the parent sort but otherwise is much the same. The Blood Free raised
by John M. Ives of Salem, Massachusetts, while somewhat of the nature
of Blood Cling, is, nevertheless, a different sort. The American
Pomological Society listed Blood Cling in its catalog in 1871 under the
name Indian Blood Cling. In 1897 this name was changed to Blood Cling.

[Illustration: BLOOD CLING]

    Tree large, vigorous, round, compact, hardy, unproductive;
    trunk thick; branches stocky, reddish-bronze, with a light
    ash-gray tinge; branchlets slender, long, with short
    internodes, olive-green overlaid with dark red, smooth,
    glabrous, with numerous usually small, inconspicuous lenticels.

    Leaves five and three-fourths inches long, one and one-half
    inches wide, folded upward, oval-lanceolate; leaves thin,
    somewhat leathery; upper surface dark green, varying from
    smooth to rugose; lower surface light grayish-green; margin
    finely serrate, with dark brown glands; petiole three-eighths
    inch long, with two to five reniform, light or dark green
    glands variable in position.

    Flower-buds large, long, plump, oblong-conic, pubescent,
    free; flowers open in mid-season; blossoms pink, one and
    three-eighths inches across; pedicels short, glabrous,
    pale green; calyx-tube dull, speckled, greenish-red, light
    greenish-yellow within, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes
    long, narrow, acute, glabrous within, heavily pubescent
    without; petals oval to ovate, crenate near the base,
    tapering to short, narrow claws white at the base; filaments
    three-eighths inch long, shorter than the petals; pistil
    pubescent, seven-sixteenths inch long, equal to or shorter than
    the stamens.

    Fruit matures very late; one and three-fourths inches long, one
    and seven-eighths inches thick, compressed, with unequal halves
    often giving a lopsided appearance; cavity narrow, abrupt,
    usually white; suture shallow; apex round, with a mucronate
    tip; color dull greenish-white, entirely overspread with dingy
    pink mingled with splashes and stripes of darker, clouded red,
    mottled; pubescence long, coarse; skin tough, adherent to the
    pulp; flesh red, becoming lighter colored next the stone,
    juicy, coarse, stringy, tough and meaty, brisk, pleasantly
    flavored; fair in quality; stone clinging, one and one-fourth
    inches long, seven-eighths inch wide, oval to slightly obovate,
    short-pointed, strongly bulged near the apex, with grooved and
    pitted surfaces; ventral suture deeply furrowed at the sides,
    narrow; dorsal suture deep, medium in width.


BLOOD LEAF

    =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:33. 1895.

    _Blood-leaved Peach._ =2.= _Gard. Mon._ =13=:206. 1871. =3.=
    _Ibid._ =14=:316, Pl. 1872. =4.= _Ibid._ =15=:142, 183. 1873.
    =5.= _Horticulturist_ =28=:155. 1873. =6.= _Gard. Mon._
    =17=:58, 59. 1875.

Blood Leaf is a handsome ornamental. Its beet-red leaves in early
spring and its pink blossoms, borne in great profusion, entitle it to
esteem for both foliage and flowers. It is worth growing as well for
its fruits. The color-plate opposite page 78 shows the flowers and the
accompanying illustration depicts the fruit-characters. The peaches
are in no way remarkable and yet they please some as a dessert fruit.
Seedlings springing up under two trees of this variety in the Station
orchard in 1913, furnished interesting data on the inheritance of the
blood-red color in the leaves of this peach. Out of 252 young trees,
189 were red-leaved and 63 green-leaved--an exact three-to-one ratio to
show that the green color is carried as a recessive.

Several stories are told of the origin of this peach. One is that
on the battlefield of Fort Donelson, Kentucky, a southern general,
fatally wounded, sucked the juice of a peach and threw the stone into
the little pool of blood which flowed from his side. From this pit in
its bloody seed-bed sprang the tree with its blood-red leaves. John
L. Hebron, in a letter published in _Gardener's Monthly_, 1873, tells
a different tale. According to Hebron the variety was found by P. I.
Connor in 1866 at Champion Hills, Mississippi, on the battlefield where
General Tilghman was killed, a tree having sprung up close to the spot
where the General died. The variety is sometimes called the General
Tilghman peach. Leaving fable and coming to facts, we find that the
variety originated in Mississippi in the sixties and was introduced to
the trade in 1871.

[Illustration: BLOOD LEAF]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, willowy in growth,
    open-topped, hardy, unproductive; trunk thick, rough; branches
    smooth, reddish-bronze overspread with light ash-gray;
    branchlets slender, long, with short internodes, dull green
    overlaid with dark red, smooth, glabrous, with numerous small,
    inconspicuous lenticels.

    Leaves four and three-fourths inches long, one and one-fourth
    inches wide, folded upward, oval-lanceolate with tendency
    to obovate, thin; upper surface when young purplish-red
    but changing to green, smooth or rugose; lower surface
    purplish-olive; margin finely serrate, tipped with small, dark
    glands; petiole three-eighths inch long, with two to five
    small, reniform, greenish-yellow, red-tipped glands variable in
    position.

    Flower-buds large, oblong-conic, plump, pubescent, appressed;
    blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers one and one-half
    inches across, pale pink, occasionally in twos; pedicels
    nearly sessile, glabrous, greenish; calyx-tube dark, dull red
    mingled with green, yellowish within, campanulate, glabrous;
    calyx-lobes long, narrow, acute, glabrous within, slightly
    pubescent to heavily pubescent without; petals oval, slightly
    contracted toward the apex, tapering to short claws; filaments
    three-eighths inch long, shorter than the petals; pistil equal
    to the stamens in length.

    Fruit matures very late; one and five-eighths inches long,
    nearly one and five-eighths inches wide, roundish-oval,
    slightly compressed, with unequal sides, with prominent bulge
    near the apex; cavity deep, narrow, abrupt, contracted about
    the sides, marked with narrow, radiating stripes of pale red;
    suture very shallow, becoming deeper toward the apex; apex
    roundish or slightly depressed, with a small, mucronate or
    recurved, mamelon tip; color greenish-white and pale yellow,
    lightly washed with dull pink which changes to dull brown, in
    some cases deepening to a reddish blush; pubescence thick,
    short, fine; skin thin, tender, adherent to the pulp; flesh
    white to the pit, juicy, coarse, meaty but tender, sweetish,
    with some astringency; poor in quality; stone clinging, over
    one inch long, three-fourths inch wide, oval, very plump,
    tapering to a short, blunt point at the apex, with grooved
    surfaces; ventral suture lightly furrowed along the sides,
    rather wide; dorsal suture with narrow groove, slightly winged.


BRIGDON

    =1.= _Am. Gard._ =11=:244, 378. 1890. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._
    32. 1899. =3.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:340. 1903. =4.=
    Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 199. 1913.

    _Garfield._ =5.= _Can. Hort._ =26=:441, fig. 2665. 1903.

Brigdon is a local variety which possibly local pride puts too much
in evidence in assigning it a place among the major varieties in _The
Peaches of New York_. Still, it belongs with the Crawfords, aristocrats
among peaches, and this is enough to give it standing in a home
collection at least. In tree and fruit it is similar to and a worthy
rival of Early Crawford and has the same two fatal faults to bar it
from commercial plantations--the trees are capricious as to soils and
are often unproductive. On the other hand, a character of the tree to
commend it to the amateur is that it is one of the least susceptible of
all peach-trees to leaf-curl. The variety is well known only in western
New York and is going out in this region.

Brigdon originated more than a quarter-century ago in Cayuga County,
New York, and has been grown since more or less extensively on the
shores of Seneca Lake. The name Garfield was given to this peach by
some one but why or when does not appear. The variety was added to the
American Pomological Society's recommended list of fruits in 1899, a
distinction it has since held.

[Illustration: BRIGDON]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, open-topped, hardy,
    unproductive; trunk thick; branches stocky, rather smooth,
    reddish-brown overlaid with light ash-gray; branchlets slender,
    with tendency to branch, long, olive-green overlaid with
    dark red, smooth, glabrous, with numerous large and small,
    inconspicuous, irregularly shaped and often raised lenticels,
    the expansion of which causes a cracking of the bark.

    Leaves five and seven-eighths inches long, one and five-eighths
    inches wide, folded upward, oval to obovate-lanceolate,
    thin; upper surface dark green, rugose; lower surface light
    grayish-green; margin finely serrate, tipped with dark glands;
    petiole nearly one-half inch long, glandless or with one
    to four small, globose, greenish-yellow glands variable in
    position.

    Flower-buds oblong-conic, pubescent, somewhat shrunken, usually
    free; blossoms open in mid-season.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and one-half inches long,
    two and three-fourths inches wide, round-oval to cordate,
    compressed, bulged beak-like near the apex; cavity deep,
    medium to wide, abrupt or flaring, often colored with red;
    suture shallow, becoming deep near the apex; apex roundish,
    with a pointed or recurved, mamelon tip; color greenish-yellow
    changing to pale orange-yellow, speckled and splashed with
    dull red which often extends over nearly the whole surface;
    pubescence long, thick, woolly; skin thin, somewhat tough,
    separates from the pulp only when fully ripe; flesh yellow,
    juicy, coarse, firm, tender, sweet, mild, pleasant flavored;
    very good in quality; stone semi-free to free, one and
    one-fourth inches long, seven-eighths inch wide, oval,
    decidedly bulged on one side, with a rather long and slightly
    curved point, with pitted and grooved surfaces; ventral suture
    deeply furrowed along the edges, medium in width; dorsal suture
    grooved, slightly winged.


CANADA

    =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:33. 1895.

    _Early Canada._ =2.= _Gard. Mon._ =20=:237. 1878. =3.= _Ibid._
    =27=:144, 145. 1885. =4.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 80. 1897.
    =5.= Bogue _Cat._ 25. 1905.

    _Canadische Frühpfirsich._ =6.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 391. 1889.

Since its introduction some twenty-five years ago, Canada has been
a standard early peach in the northern states and more particularly
in the peach-growing region along Lake Ontario in Canada where it
originated. The variety has few characters to commend it excepting
earliness and hardiness though the trees often load themselves with
fruit. The peaches, though small, are attractive in color which
is bright red on a light background. The red is well shown in the
color-plate though the fruits illustrated are rather smaller than
usual. Canada is about the poorest of all peaches in flavor. The fruits
are firm and ship well for a white-fleshed peach making, so many
maintain, a better commercial variety than its rival, Alexander. On
our grounds Canada is freer from rot than Alexander and the flesh does
not cling as tightly. All agree that the tree is very hardy. However,
there ought to be but small place in the peach-lists of nowadays for
a variety so poor in quality and with fruits of such inferior size as
those of Canada.

The variety originated as a chance seedling more than a quarter-century
ago with A. H. High, Jordan, Ontario, Canada. It is often known as
Early Canada and is not infrequently confounded with Amsden and
Alexander, varieties of the same season.

[Illustration: CANADA]

    Tree large, upright-spreading, open-topped, hardy, productive;
    trunk thick; branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown overspread
    with light ash-gray; branchlets with internodes medium in
    length, dark red, with a slight tinge of green, glossy, smooth,
    glabrous, slightly curving, with numerous conspicuous, large,
    raised lenticels.

    Leaves folded upward, six inches long, one and one-fourth
    inches wide, oval to obovate-lanceolate, medium in thickness;
    upper surface pale olive-green, smooth or rugose; lower surface
    grayish-green; margin finely serrate, tipped with reddish-brown
    glands; petiole one-fourth inch long, with one to four small,
    globose, greenish-yellow glands variable in position.

    Flower-buds small, short, narrow, pointed, not very plump, dark
    colored, appressed; blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers
    dark pink at the center, bordered with lighter pink, one
    and one-half inches across; pedicels very short, glabrous,
    green; calyx-tube reddish-green, lemon-yellow within, obconic,
    glabrous; calyx-lobes short, obtuse, glabrous within, slightly
    or heavily pubescent without; petals roundish-ovate, widely
    notched at the base, tapering to long, broad claws red at the
    base; filaments one-half inch long, shorter than the petals;
    pistil equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit matures very early; two inches long, two and one-fourth
    inches wide, round-oblate, slightly compressed, with unequal
    sides; cavity wide, flaring; suture shallow to deep; apex
    ending in a mucronate, recurved tip; color creamy white,
    blushed with red and mottled and splashed with darker red;
    pubescence short, thick; skin thin, tender, separates from the
    pulp; flesh white, juicy, fine-grained, meaty but tender, sweet
    yet sprightly; fair in quality; stone semi-clinging, one and
    one-eighth inches long, seven-eighths inch wide, round-oval to
    elliptical, plump, abruptly pointed, with small grooves in the
    surfaces; ventral suture very deeply grooved along the sides,
    narrow; dorsal suture deeply grooved.


CAPTAIN EDE

    =1.= Lovett _Cat._ 29. 1897. =2.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._
    12. 1907.

    _Ede._ =3.= _Ohio Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 183. 1888-89. =4.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:212. 1899. =5.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:96.
    1900. =6.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 37. 1909.

Though Captain Ede has been under cultivation forty-six years it
has but recently come into prominence and seems now to find favor
quite generally as a money-making peach. Those who recommend it
say that the trees are vigorous, heavy bearers and that the crop is
uniform and always fair, smooth and without culls. The crop matures
in a short time, ships well and is in demand in the markets either
as a dessert peach or for culinary purposes. On the Station grounds,
Captain Ede comes up to the reputation given it in all respects
excepting productiveness--here it is a shy bearer. The peaches, as the
color-plate shows, are beautiful, the flavor is subacid but rich, with
a distinct smack of the almond. Captain Ede ripens with Early Crawford,
a week or ten days before Elberta. The tree, as it grows here, can
hardly be distinguished from that of Elberta. We should unhesitatingly
recommend Captain Ede to New York peach-growers, were it not for the
fear that it does not accommodate itself to a diversity of soils and
climates. It does rather better farther south.

Captain Ede originated in 1870 as a seedling in the door-yard of
Captain Henry Ede, Cobden, Illinois. Later, it was introduced by George
Gould and Son, Villa Ridge, Illinois. The parentage of the variety is
unknown. By some, Chinese Cling is supposed to have been one of the
parents and others give the same credit to Honest John. The American
Pomological Society added Captain Ede to its fruit-list in 1909.

[Illustration: CAPTAIN EDE]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, hardy, not always
    productive; trunk thick; branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown
    overspread with very light ash-gray; branchlets slender,
    olive-green more or less overspread with dark red, smooth,
    glabrous, with numerous large or very small, inconspicuous
    lenticels.

    Leaves five and three-fourths inches long, one and one-half
    inches wide, folded upward, oval to obovate-lanceolate; upper
    surface dark green, smooth; lower surface light grayish-green;
    margin finely serrate, tipped with dark red glands;
    petiole one-fourth inch long, with two to six, reniform,
    greenish-yellow glands medium in size and variable in position.

    Flower-buds large, long, oblong-conic, plump, usually
    appressed; blossoms open very late; flowers three-fourths
    inch across, dark pink; pedicels short, glabrous, pale
    green; calyx-tube dull, dotted reddish-green, orange-red
    within, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes short, broad,
    obtuse, glabrous within, heavily pubescent without; petals
    roundish-ovate, notched near the base, tapering to short,
    narrow, white claws; filaments one-fourth inch long, equal to
    the petals in length; pistil pubescent toward the base, equal
    to the stamens in length.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; about two and one-fourth inches
    in diameter, roundish-cordate to somewhat oval, very slightly
    compressed, with nearly equal halves, bulged near the apex;
    cavity wide, abrupt or flaring, often tinged with red and with
    tender skin; suture variable in depth, extending more than
    half-way around; apex roundish, with a prolonged, recurved,
    mamelon tip; color orange-yellow, with specks and splashes of
    red, blushed with darker red; pubescence thick, short, variable
    in coarseness; skin tough, adherent to the pulp; flesh
    yellow, stained red at the pit, dry, stringy, tender, somewhat
    meaty, strongly aromatic, pleasantly flavored; good in quality;
    stone free, one and one-fourth inches long, seven-eighths
    inch wide, oval, bulged along the ventral suture, with pitted
    surfaces; ventral suture deeply furrowed along the edges,
    narrow; dorsal suture grooved, somewhat flattened.


CARMAN

    =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 25. 1894. =2.= _Rural N. Y._
    =54=:235, 619. 1895. =3.= _Ga. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:308. 1900. =4.=
    _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:92, 93 fig. 3. 1901. =5.= _U. S. D. A.
    Yearbook_ 385, 386, Pl. XLVIII. 1901. =6.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc.
    Rpt._ 11. 1907. =7.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1909.

Among the many white-fleshed peaches of recent introduction, few hold
a more conspicuous place than Carman. Possibly its chief asset is a
constitution which enables it to withstand trying climates, both north
and south, and to accommodate itself to a great variety of soils. Thus,
we find Carman a very general favorite in nearly every peach-region on
this continent. Besides its cosmopolitan constitution, there is much
merit in the fruits especially for a peach ripening so early. While
of but medium size (the color-plate does not do justice in showing
the size of Carman) the peaches are most pleasing in appearance. The
color is a brilliant red splashed with darker red on a creamy-white
background. The shape is nearly round and the trimness and symmetry of
the contour make the variety, especially when packed in box or basket,
one scarcely surpassed in attractiveness of form. Carman is rated
as very good in quality for a peach of its season though a smack of
bitterness in its mild, sweet flavor condemns it for some. The habit
of growth is excellent, peaches are borne abundantly, brown-rot takes
comparatively little toll and in tree or bud the variety is remarkably
hardy. All in all, Carman is one of the most useful peaches of its
class and season for either home or commercial planting.

Carman grew from a seed planted in 1889 by J. W. Stubenrauch, Mexia,
Texas. The tree fruited in 1892 and its earliness and freedom from rot
so pleased Mr. Stubenrauch that he at once began propagating the new
variety, naming it Pride of Texas. Later, in 1894, the name was changed
to Carman in honor of the late E. S. Carman, long editor of the _Rural
New Yorker_. In 1909 the American Pomological Society added Carman to
its list of fruits as one of its recommended varieties.

[Illustration: CARMAN]

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading or somewhat upright,
    open-topped, hardy, very productive; trunk thick; branches
    stocky, smooth, bright red overspread with ash-gray; branchlets
    long, olive-green overspread with dark red, glabrous, smooth,
    glossy, with numerous small, inconspicuous lenticels.

    Leaves five and seven-eighths inches long, one and
    three-fourths inches wide, folded upward, oval to
    obovate-lanceolate; upper surface dark green, smooth; lower
    surface light grayish-green; margin finely serrate, tipped with
    dark red glands; petiole one-fourth inch long, with three to
    five reniform glands medium in size and variable in position
    and color.

    Flower-buds oval, pointed, plump, heavily pubescent, appressed;
    blossoms open in mid-season; flowers one and one-fourth inches
    across, pink; pedicels short, glabrous, pale green; calyx-tube
    dull reddish-green, speckled, yellowish-green within,
    campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes short, acute to obtuse,
    glabrous within, heavily pubescent without; petals oval to
    ovate, with distinct notches near the base, tapering to narrow,
    white claws of medium length; filaments three-eighths inch
    long, shorter than the petals; pistil pubescent near the base,
    shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit matures early; about two and one-fourth inches in
    diameter, round-oval, compressed, with unequal sides, bulged
    near the apex; cavity abrupt or flaring, tinged with pink
    and with tender skin; suture shallow, becoming deeper at the
    cavity; apex roundish or depressed, with a somewhat pointed or
    mucronate tip; color creamy-white more or less overspread with
    light red, with splashes of darker red; pubescence very thick,
    short; skin thin, tough, adherent to the pulp; flesh white,
    red at the pit, juicy, tender, sweet, mild, pleasant flavored;
    very good in quality; stone nearly free, about one and one-half
    inches long, one inch wide, oval, plump, with thickly-pitted
    surfaces; ventral suture deeply grooved along the edges, thick,
    furrowed and winged; dorsal suture deeply grooved.


CHAIRS

    =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:209. 1899. =2.= _Rural N. Y._
    =59=:642 fig. 236. 1900. =3.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._
    =2=:340. 1903.

    _Chairs' Choice._ =4.= _N. C. Sta. Rpt._ =11=:108. 1889. =5.=
    Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 200. 1913.

    _Chair's Choice._ =6.= _Col. O. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 151. 1893.
    =7.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 166. 1895. =8.= _Ibid._ 26. 1899.

    _Chair Choice._ =9.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 44. 1891.

Chairs is a select fruit in the Crawford group, in its turn the
most select of the several groups of peaches. In quality Chairs is
unapproachable by varieties outside of its own family and is not
surpassed by any within its group. The variety was at one time a
standard late, yellow-fleshed, freestone, market peach competing in
popularity with Late Crawford over which it often held ascendency
because less subject to brown-rot. The coming of the showier and more
productive but less well-flavored varieties of the Elberta type has
driven the Crawford group from the markets and Chairs is now known
only in collections where it will long be treasured for its delectable
quality. Unproductiveness and capriciousness in soil and climate,
faults of all Crawford-like peaches, are marked in Chairs. The fruits
are usually larger than the specimens shown in the accompanying
illustration.

Chairs originated about 1880 in the orchard of Franklin Chairs,
Anne Arundel County, Maryland. First called Chairs' Choice, the
apostrophe was dropped in 1891 by the American Pomological Society and
still later the same organization shortened the name to Chairs. Its
horticultural value was early appreciated by all pomologists and it has
long been a prime favorite.

[Illustration: CHAIRS]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, hardy, unproductive;
    trunk stocky; branches thick, smooth, reddish-brown covered
    with light ash-gray; branchlets inclined to rebranch, short,
    with long internodes, olive-green overlaid with dark red,
    smooth, glabrous, with numerous large and small, raised
    lenticels.

    Leaves five and three-fourths inches long, one and one-half
    inches wide, folded upward, oval to obovate-lanceolate,
    thin; upper surface dark green, smooth or somewhat rugose;
    lower surface light grayish-green; margin coarsely serrate,
    often in two series, tipped with reddish-brown glands;
    petiole one-fourth inch long, with two to six small, globose,
    greenish-yellow glands variable in position.

    Flower-buds large, oblong-obtuse, very plump, usually free;
    season of bloom late; flowers dark pink fading toward the
    whitish centers, three-fourths inch across; pedicels short,
    glabrous, pale green; calyx-tube dull, dotted reddish-green,
    orange-red within, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes obtuse,
    glabrous within, heavily pubescent without; petals oval or
    ovate, nearly entire, often notched near the base, tapering to
    claws of medium width, white at the base; filaments one-fourth
    inch long, equal to the petals in length; pistil pubescent near
    the ovary, usually longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures in late mid-season; two and three-fourths inches
    long, two and seven-eighths inches thick, roundish-oval,
    irregular, bulged beak-like along one side toward the apex,
    compressed, with unequal halves; cavity deep, wide, abrupt
    or flaring; suture shallow, deepening toward the apex and
    extending slightly beyond; apex roundish, with a mucronate or
    small, recurved, mamelon tip; color golden-yellow, blushed
    and splashed with dull red; pubescence short, fine; skin
    thin, tough, free; flesh yellow, faintly stained with red
    near the pit, juicy, stringy, tender, subacid or sprightly,
    pleasantly flavored; very good in quality; stone free, one
    and three-fourths inches long, one and three-eighths inches
    wide, large, broadly oval, bulged along one side, plump, with
    surfaces deeply pitted and with short grooves; ventral suture
    wide, deeply furrowed along the sides, winged; dorsal suture a
    deep, wide groove inclined to wing.


CHAMPION

    =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 392. 1891. =2.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._
    =118=:33. 1895. =3.= _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta. Rpt._ =2=:57. 1895.
    =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 21. 1897. =5.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._
    =42=:233. 1898. =6.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:209, 210. 1899.
    =7.= _Kan. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 48. 1901. =8.= _Mich. Hort. Soc.
    Rpt._ 112. 1903. =9.= _Can. Hort._ =27=:97, 98, fig. 2746.
    1904. =10.= _U. S. D. A. Yearbook_ 478, 479, Pl. XLV. 1908.
    =11.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 200. 1913.

Champion is the white-fleshed peach _par excellence_ in
quality--rightly used as the standard to gauge the quality of all
other white-fleshed peaches. The fruits are nearly as attractive to
the eye as to the palate but unfortunately run small and off color
in all but choicely good peach-soils. The peaches are not only very
good in the characters that make up quality--tender flesh, juiciness,
pleasant flavor--but there is a peculiar honeyed sweetness possessed by
few other peaches which gives the Champion individuality. The color,
barring a slight excess in yellow, is well shown in the color-plate but
the size as shown is small. The tree of Champion is almost perfect from
the ground up, few other varieties surpassing it in height and girt and
none, on the Station grounds at least, equalling it in the quantity and
the luxuriant green of its foliage. A Champion tree is known by its
foliage as far as the eye can distinguish color. As would be expected
from the tree-characters given, in soils to which it is suited,
Champion rejoices in vigor and health as do few other varieties. The
variety surpasses most of its orchard-associates in productiveness but
the peaches are inviting prey to brown-rot and the trees are sometimes
defoliated with leaf-curl so that, with its capriciousness as to
soils, it has grave faults as a commercial variety. Because of high
quality of the fruit and the beauty of the tree, Champion should have a
conspicuous place in the orchard of the amateur.

Champion is a seedling of Oldmixon Free supposedly fertilized by Early
York. The original seed was planted about 1880 by I. G. Hubbard,
Nokomis, Illinois, and the variety was introduced by him and by the
Dayton Star Nurseries in 1890. In the early years of its dissemination
Champion was confused with an early, semi-cling variety which
originated in western Michigan and which was locally sold for a time
under the same name. The American Pomological Society added Champion to
its fruit-list in 1897.

    [Illustration: CHAMPION]

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, open-topped, very productive;
    trunk thick; branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown covered
    with ash-gray; branchlets thick, very long, with short
    internodes, olive-green overspread with dull red, smooth,
    glabrous, with numerous large lenticels, inconspicuous except
    toward the base.

    Leaves five and one-fourth inches long, one and one-half
    inches wide, folded upward, oval to obovate-lanceolate; upper
    surface dark green, rugose along the midrib; lower surface
    grayish-green; margin finely serrate, tipped with dark red
    glands; petiole three-eighths inch long, with two to five
    small, globose, greenish-yellow glands variable in position.

    Flower-buds large, medium in length, plump, conical, pubescent,
    free; blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers pink, less
    than one inch across, well distributed; pedicels short,
    glabrous, pale green; calyx-tube dark, mottled reddish-green,
    greenish-yellow within, obconic, glabrous; calyx-lobes short,
    broad, obtuse, glabrous within, pubescent without, slightly
    reflexed; petals round-oval to ovate, tapering to narrow,
    short, white claws; filaments three-eighths inch long, equal to
    the petals in length; pistil pubescent about the ovary, equal
    to the stamens in length.

    Fruit matures in early mid-season; two and one-fourth inches
    long, two and three-eighths inches wide, round or round-oval,
    somewhat truncate, with halves usually equal; cavity shallow,
    narrow, abrupt or flaring, contracted; suture shallow; apex
    roundish, usually with a slightly recurved, mucronate tip;
    color pale green changing to creamy-white, with splashes of
    carmine mingled with a blush of darker red; pubescence short,
    thick; skin tough, adherent to the pulp; flesh white, tinged
    red at the pit, very juicy, markedly tender, sweet, pleasant
    flavored; very good; stone semi-free to free, one and one-half
    inches long, about one inch wide, oval, long-pointed, with
    deeply grooved surfaces; ventral suture furrowed deeply along
    the sides, wide; dorsal suture deeply furrowed, rather wide,
    with sides slightly wing-like.


CHILI

    =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 21. 1897. =2.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort.
    Man._ =2=:340. 1903.

    _Hill's Chili_ =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 184, 211. 1856. =4.=
    Elliott _Fr. Book_ 298. 1859. =5.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 2nd
    App. 142, 143. 1872. =6.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 28. 1873. =7.=
    _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 483, 484. 1873.

    _Sugar._ =8.= _Gard. Mon._ =11=:148. 1869.

    _Stanley Late._ =9.= _Ibid._ =14=:347. 1872. =10.= _Mich. Sta.
    Sp. Bul._ =44=:62. 1910.

    _Jenny Lind._ =11.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 116. 1872.

    _Cass._ =12.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 14, 15. 1899.

Chili, long familiar to the older generation of peach-growers as Hill's
Chili, is now waning in popularity though for nearly a century it was
one of the mainstays of peach-growing, having been widely and commonly
planted in commercial orchards the country over. Chili, in its day, was
one of the notable culinary peaches, being especially desirable for
canning and curing because of its firm, dry, but well-flavored flesh,
and, besides, it ripened late in the season when cool weather gave
storage conditions and made culinary work more agreeable to housewives.
The peaches are not at all attractive in size, color or shape, are
quite too dry of flesh to eat with pleasure out of hand and are made
even less agreeable to sight and taste by pubescence so heavy as to be
woolly. The trees of Chili are about all that could be desired, for,
while of but medium size, they are vigorous, very hardy, long-lived
and, barring injury from cold or frost, are annually fruitful, though
the variety has the fault of ripening its crop unevenly--an asset in
home orchards, a liability in commercial plantings.

Chili came into cultivation early in the Nineteenth Century, the first
tree probably having appeared in the orchard of Deacon Pitman Wilcox,
Chili, Monroe County, New York. It comes almost true to seed and
several seedlings have sprung up which are almost indistinguishable
from it. Among these are Sugar, Stanley Late, Jenny Lind and Cass.
Chili was mentioned by the American Pomological Society in 1856 as a
worthy sort under the name "Hill's Chili"; placed under this name on
the fruit list in 1873; and changed to Chili in 1897.

[Illustration: CHILI]

    Tree medium in size, compact, vigorous, upright-spreading,
    hardy, productive; trunk thick, shaggy; branches stocky,
    smooth, reddish-brown covered with light ash-gray; branchlets
    unusually long, with spur-like branches near the tips, dark
    reddish-green, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with conspicuous,
    raised lenticels.

    Leaves folded upward and recurved, six inches long, one and
    one-half inches wide, long-oval to obovate-lanceolate, thin;
    upper surface dark, dull olive-green, smooth; lower surface
    grayish-green; margin finely serrate, tipped with reddish-brown
    glands; petiole three-eighths inch long, with two to seven
    small, usually reniform, reddish-brown glands mostly on the
    petiole.

    Flower-buds small, short, obtuse, plump, pubescent, nearly
    free; blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers pink, one and
    one-half inches across, well distributed; pedicels short,
    glabrous, green; calyx-tube red at the base, orange-colored
    within, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes short, medium to
    broad, obtuse, glabrous within, pubescent without; petals oval,
    faintly notched near the base, tapering to short claws of
    medium width, tinged with red at the base; filaments one-half
    inch long, shorter than the petals; pistil pubescent near the
    base, longer than the stamens.

    Fruit late; two and one-half inches long, two and one-fourth
    inches wide, oblong-conic, somewhat angular, compressed,
    with unequal halves; cavity uneven, shallow, medium to wide,
    contracted, abrupt or flaring, the skin tender and tearing
    easily; suture shallow, sometimes extending beyond the apex;
    apex slightly pointed; color greenish-yellow changing to
    orange-yellow, with a dark red blush, splashed and mottled
    with red; pubescence long, thick, coarse; skin thin, tough,
    separates from the pulp; flesh stained red at the pit,
    yellowish, dry, stringy, firm but tender, mild but sprightly;
    good in quality; stone free, one and one-half inches long,
    fifteen-sixteenths inch wide, flattened wedge-like at the base,
    oval to obovate, winged, usually without bulge, long-pointed at
    the apex, with pitted surfaces; ventral suture deeply furrowed,
    wide; dorsal suture deeply grooved.


CHINESE CLING

    =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 636. 1857. =2.= _Horticulturist_
    =14=:107. 1859. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 18. 1871. =4.= _Del.
    Sta. Rpt._ =13=:85, 86, 95, 107, fig. 4. 1901.

    _Shanghae._ =5.= _Mag. Hort._ =17=:464. 1851. =6.= _Gard.
    Chron._ 693. 1852. =7.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 641. 1857.

    _Chinese Peach._ =8.= _Horticulturist_ N. S. =3=:286, 472. 1853.

    _Shanghai._ =9.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 231. 1866.

    _De Chang-Hai._ =10.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:211, 212, fig. 104.
    1866-73.

Chinese Cling holds a high place in the esteem of American pomologists
for its intrinsic value, because it was the first peach in one of the
main stems of the peach-family to come to America, and because it
is the parent, or one of the parents, of a great number of the best
white-fleshed peaches grown in this country. The variety is not now
remarkable for either fruit- or tree-characters, being surpassed
in both by many of its offspring, except, possibly, in quality. The
flavor is delicious, being finely balanced between sweetness and
sourness, with sweet predominating, and with a most distinct, curious
and pleasant taste of the almond. The fruits are too tender for
shipment and very subject to brown-rot. The trees are weak-growers,
shy-bearers, tender to cold and susceptible to leaf-curl. Chinese
Cling created a sensation in pomology when it was brought to America
because it was very different from any other peach then here and was
superior to any other in several characters. Its seedlings quickly came
into prominence with the result that possibly a hundred or more of the
varieties named in _The Peaches of New York_ have descended from it.
The attempt to hold it and its seedlings in a distinct group fails, as
we have tried to show in discussing groups of peaches, because through
hybridization they are hopelessly confused with other stocks. The
color-plate is an excellent illustration of Chinese Cling.

Chinese Cling was found growing in the orchards south of the city of
Shanghai, China, by Robert Fortune, the indefatigable English botanist,
who was sent to China by the London Horticultural Society to collect
useful and ornamental plants. Fortune sent the peach to England in
1844 under the name Shanghai, a name which it retains, with variable
spellings, in Europe. Chinese Cling was imported as potted plants to
America in 1850 by Charles Downing through a Mr. Winchester, British
consul at Shanghai, China. Downing forwarded one of the trees to Henry
Lyons, Laurel Park, Columbia, South Carolina, with whom the variety
first fruited in America. Lyons called the new fruit "Chinese Peach."
In 1871 the American Pomological Society placed Chinese Cling on its
recommended list of varieties, a place it still holds.

[Illustration: CHINESE CLING]

    Tree rather weak in growth, upright-spreading, round-topped,
    not very hardy, medium in productiveness; trunk thick; branches
    stocky, reddish-brown mingled with light ash-gray; branchlets
    with short internodes, olive-green more or less overlaid with
    dark red, smooth, glabrous, with numerous large and very small,
    inconspicuous lenticels.

    Leaves seven and one-half inches long, two inches wide, folded
    upward, broad oval-lanceolate, thick, leathery; upper surface
    dark green, smooth, becoming slightly rugose along the midrib;
    lower surface light grayish-green; margin coarsely crenate to
    finely serrate, tipped with dark red glands; petiole one-half
    inch long, with two to five reniform, greenish-yellow,
    dark-tipped glands variable in position.

    Flower-buds large, long, obtuse, plump, very pubescent,
    somewhat appressed; blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers
    pink, one and one-half inches across, well distributed;
    pedicels short, glabrous, green; calyx-tube reddish-green;
    calyx-lobes medium to broad, obtuse, glabrous within, heavily
    pubescent near the outer edges; petals ovate, irregularly
    notched near the base, tapering to short, white claws;
    filaments one-fourth inch long, shorter than the petals; pistil
    pubescent at the base, longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures late; two and five-eighths inches long, two and
    nine-sixteenths inches wide, round-oval, compressed; cavity
    deep, contracted, narrow, abrupt, faintly tinged with red;
    suture deep, extending beyond the apex; apex roundish or
    flattened, with a mucronate tip; color greenish-white changing
    to creamy-white, blushed on one side with lively red, splashed
    and marbled with duller red; pubescence thick; skin tough,
    adhering to the pulp; flesh white, tinged with red near the
    pit, juicy, meaty, tender, sweet but sprightly, aromatic; good
    in quality; stone clinging, one and three-eighths inches long,
    one inch wide, oval, conspicuously winged, bulged on one side,
    with pitted surfaces; ventral suture deeply furrowed along the
    sides, rather narrow; dorsal suture large, deep, wide, winged.


CHINESE FREE

    =1.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._ =11=:7, 11. 1890. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 44. 1891. =3.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:234. 1898. =4.= _Del.
    Sta. Rpt._ =13=:95. 1901. =5.=_Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1909.
    =6.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 200. 1913.

Perhaps it is enough to say that Chinese Free is Chinese Cling with a
free stone--at least it has been so heralded. On our grounds, however,
leaves, flowers and fruits are all smaller and the quality of the fruit
is not nearly as good while the tree runs a little better in most
characters. This, perhaps, is a good example of many of the seedlings
of Chinese Cling--the influence of another parent and the stimulus of
hybridization are apparent. Chinese Free is surpassed by many other
white-fleshed peaches of its season for both home and market. Doubt
has arisen as to whether the tree on the Station grounds is the true
Chinese Free, yet we think it is the variety now commonly going under
this name.

This variety grew from a seed of Chinese Cling in the orchard of W. P.
Robinson, Atlanta, Georgia, nearly forty years ago. Mr. Robinson first
exhibited it before the Georgia Horticultural Society in 1881 as an
unnamed seedling. Thereafter it was sometimes known locally as Robinson
but commercially it has always been called Chinese Free. In 1891 the
Georgia Horticultural Society formally adopted the latter name. The
American Pomological Society listed Chinese Free on its fruit-list in
1891 but dropped it in 1897. In 1909, however, another change in heart
caused the Society's officials again to list it in the catalog where it
still remains.

    Tree above medium in size, vigorous, spreading, the lower
    branches slightly drooping, open-topped, neither very hardy
    nor very productive; trunk thick; branches stocky, smooth,
    reddish-brown tinged with light ash-gray; branchlets slender,
    inclined to rebranch, long, dark red intermingled with
    olive-green, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with numerous large,
    conspicuous lenticels raised toward the base.

    Leaves five and three-fourths inches long, one and five-eighths
    inches wide, folded upward, oval-lanceolate, medium in
    thickness and toughness; upper surface dark green, rugose along
    the midrib; lower surface dull grayish-green; margin finely
    serrate, tipped with dark red glands; petiole three-eighths
    inch long, with two to six rather large, reniform,
    greenish-yellow, dark-tipped glands variable in position.

    Flower-buds usually obtuse, plump, very pubescent, somewhat
    appressed; blooming season early; flowers pale pink, darker
    along the edges, one and one-fourth inches across, often
    in twos; pedicels short, glabrous, green; calyx-tube dull,
    dark reddish-green, light yellow within, obconic, glabrous;
    calyx-lobes acute, glabrous within, pubescent without; petals
    oval or ovate, tapering to small, narrow claws tinged with red
    at the base; filaments one-half inch long, usually shorter than
    the petals; pistil pubescent at the ovary, often longer than
    the stamens.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and one-half inches long, two
    and three-fourths inches wide, roundish-oval, bulged at one
    side, compressed, with unequal halves; cavity narrow, abrupt,
    tinged with red, with tender skin; suture shallow but deepening
    at the apex; apex roundish or pointed, with a mucronate tip;
    color greenish-white changing to creamy-white, blushed with
    red, mottled and striped with darker red; pubescence very
    short, thin; skin thin, tough, separates from the pulp; flesh
    greenish-white or whitish, stained with red at the pit,
    juicy, tender, melting, subacid, sprightly; fair to possibly
    good in quality; stone free, one and one-fourth inches long,
    fifteen-sixteenths inch wide, oval, plump, abruptly pointed,
    with purplish-brown, pitted surfaces; ventral suture deeply
    furrowed along the sides, winged near the base, rather wide;
    dorsal suture deeply grooved, wing-like.


CLIMAX

    =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 44. 1891. =2.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._
    =39=:804. 1896. =3.= Glen St. Mary _Cat._ 11. 1900. =4.= _Fla.
    Sta. Bul._ =73=:143. 1904. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1909.

Climax is a honey-sweet, freestone peach supposedly adapted only to
the far south. The trees on the grounds of this Station seem as hardy
as the average and are as productive. Whether or not the peaches are
as large and as attractive here as in Florida, where the variety is
a commercial sort, we cannot say but certain it is, Climax has no
commercial value in New York. The peaches are small, unattractive in
color, drop badly, are disfigured by peach-scab and have only honeyed
sweetness to recommend them. We figure and describe the variety in full
only to show that honey-fleshed peaches can be grown this far north and
to call attention to the possibility and desirability of using peaches
of this stock in breeding to improve the quality or give new flavors to
northern peaches. It would, too, give pleasant variety and add quality
to the home orchard.

Climax is a seedling of Honey but neither the date of origin nor the
name of the originator is known. The variety was introduced by G. L.
Taber, Glen Saint Mary, Florida, in 1886. The American Pomological
Society added Climax to its fruit-list in 1891 but dropped it in 1899.
In 1909, however, the variety was replaced in the Society's catalog as
a peach of merit for the South.

[Illustration: CLIMAX]

    Tree small, vigorous, upright-spreading, round-topped,
    dense, productive; trunk roughish; branches roughened by the
    lenticels, reddish-brown covered with gray; branchlets very
    slender, long, with short internodes, olive-green overspread
    with darker red, smooth, glabrous, with very few small,
    inconspicuous, raised lenticels.

    Leaves six inches long, one and three-eighths inches wide,
    flattened, lanceolate, thin, leathery; upper surface dull,
    medium green, smooth; lower surface olive-green; margin bluntly
    serrate, glandular; petiole three-eighths inch long, slender,
    glandless or with one to four small, reniform glands usually at
    the base of the leaf.

    Flower-buds small and short, conical, plump, pubescent,
    appressed; blooming season late; flowers pale pink, one inch
    across; pedicels slender, glabrous, green; calyx-tube dotted
    reddish-green, greenish-yellow within, obconic, glabrous;
    calyx-lobes acute or obtuse, glabrous within, pubescent
    without, partly erect; petals ovate or oval, tapering to narrow
    claws whitish at the base; filaments shorter than the petals;
    pistil shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and three-eighths inches
    long, two and one-eighth inches thick, oval, but slightly
    compressed, with unequal sides; cavity usually shallow flaring,
    splashed with red; suture shallow, deepening toward the apex;
    apex conic, with a long, swollen, often recurved tip; color
    greenish-white or creamy-white, occasionally with a blush or
    faint mottlings of red toward the base; pubescence short,
    thick; skin thin, adherent to the pulp; flesh white, stained
    with red near the pit, juicy, stringy, melting, very sweet,
    mild; very good in quality; stone semi-free to free, one and
    one-fourth inches long, thirteen-sixteenths inch wide, oval,
    plump, bulged on one side, long-pointed at the apex, with
    pitted and grooved, reddish-brown surfaces; ventral suture
    deeply furrowed along the sides, narrow; dorsal suture grooved.


CROSBY

    =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 391, Pl. VIII. 1891. =2.= _Ont. Fr.
    Exp. Sta. Rpt._ =2=:58. 1895. =3.= _Minn. Hort. Soc. Rpt._
    224 fig. 1896. =4.= _Ohio Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 58, 59. 1896-97.
    =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 21. 1897. =6.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._
    =169=:211. 1899. =7.= _Can. Hort._ =23=:379. 1900.

    _Excelsior._ =8.= _Am. Gard._ =12=:699. 1891. =9.= _Rural N.
    Y._ =50=:736. 1891. =10.= _Am. Gard._ =13=:47. 1892.

Of the several virtues which entitle Crosby to the esteem of
fruit-growers, possibly the most notable is hardiness in tree and
bud so marked that it is often called the "frost-proof" peach. It is
doubtful, however, whether it is hardier than other peaches of its kind
as Chili, Smock and Heath Cling. Besides hardiness, the trees have to
recommend them vigor, health and productiveness, the latter character
offset somewhat by small size. The quality of the fruit is excellent.
The rich, yellow, freestone flesh is delicious to the taste either as a
dessert or as a culinary fruit. In these days of showy fruits, however,
Crosby falls far short in appearance, the peaches running small, being
somewhat irregular and covered with dense tomentum. Still, at its
best, in soils to which it is perfectly suited, the peaches are often
handsome. But there lies another fault, the variety accommodates
itself but poorly to trying soils and climates, failing especially in
hungry soils and dark climates. The variety is noted for its willowy
growth, small leaves, small flowers, small pits and, as has been said,
hardiness. It is an ideal home sort.

Crosby was sent out about 1876 by a Mr. Crosby, a nurseryman of
Billerica, Massachusetts. Later the Massachusetts Agricultural College
propagated and distributed it in a small way in northern Massachusetts
where it was known as Excelsior. The fact that there was another
variety called Excelsior made a change necessary and the peach was
renamed in honor of Mr. Crosby. The American Pomological Society placed
Crosby on its list of recommended varieties in 1897.

[Illustration: CROSBY]

    Tree small, vigorous, spreading, open-topped, with lower
    branches slightly drooping, unusually hardy, very productive;
    trunk thick; branches of medium size, smooth, reddish-brown
    overspread with light ash-gray; branchlets slender, inclined
    to rebranch, long, olive-green almost overspread with dark
    red, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with numerous large and small,
    conspicuous lenticels.

    Leaves rather small and narrow, five and three-fourths inches
    long, one and one-fourth inches wide, folded upward, oval to
    obovate-lanceolate, thin; upper surface dark green, smooth;
    lower surface light grayish-green; margin finely serrate
    or crenate, tipped with dark brownish-red glands; petiole
    three-eighths inch long, with two to seven rather small,
    reniform, greenish-yellow glands variable in position.

    Flower-buds small, short, conical, pubescent, appressed;
    flowers appear in mid-season; blossoms pale pink, darker
    near the edges, nearly one inch across, well distributed;
    pedicels very short, thick; calyx-tube dull reddish-green,
    orange-colored within, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes
    short, narrow, acute, glabrous within, pubescent without;
    petals oval, tapering to long, narrow claws often red at the
    base; filaments three-eighths inch long, equal to the petals in
    length; pistil pubescent at the ovary, equal to or sometimes
    longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures late; two and three-fourths inches long, two
    and three-eighths inches thick, roundish or roundish-oblate,
    slightly compressed, bulged near the apex, with unequal sides;
    cavity deep, abrupt or flaring, sometimes splashed with red;
    suture shallow, becoming deeper near the apex and extending
    beyond; apex roundish, with a sunken, mucronate tip; color
    orange-yellow, often blushed over much of the surface with dull
    red, splashed and striped with darker red; pubescence long,
    thick, coarse; skin thick, tough, adherent to the pulp; flesh
    deep yellow, stained with red near the pit, juicy, stringy,
    firm but tender, sweet, mild, pleasant flavored; very good in
    quality; stone free, one and five-sixteenths inches long, one
    inch wide, oval, plump, bulged near the apex, with pitted and
    grooved surfaces; ventral suture with shallow furrows along the
    sides; dorsal suture deeply grooved, winged.


DAVIDSON

    =1.= Harrison & Sons _Cat._ 16. 1905. =2.= _Mo. State Fr. Sta.
    Rpt._ 12. 1905-06. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:35 fig., 36.
    1910.

Davidson is on probation as an early peach for northern climates with
the chances greatly against its ever proving worthy the attention of
New York peach-growers. Still, it comes so highly recommended that we
give it a place among the major varieties in _The Peaches of New York_
hoping that the growers of the State will at least try it out. It is a
white-fleshed peach similar to the well-known Rivers, larger in size,
but not quite as early. The trees are very hardy, come into bearing
early and bear heavily but ripen their crop unevenly. The peaches,
as the color-plate shows, are handsome, and for a variety of early
season they are particularly good in quality but are very susceptible
to brown-rot, peach-scab, leaf-curl and seemingly all the other ills
peach-flesh is heir to.

Davidson originated with G. W. Davidson, Shelby, Michigan, and is
supposed to be a sport of Early Michigan, being very similar to that
sort in all respects except season, Davidson being two weeks earlier.
It is often confused with Eureka.

[Illustration: DAVIDSON]

    Tree large, upright-spreading, hardy, productive; trunk thick;
    branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown covered with ash-gray;
    branchlets dull red strongly colored with olive-green, smooth,
    glabrous, with numerous small, conspicuous lenticels raised
    toward the base.

    Leaves five and three-fourths inches long, one and five-eighths
    inches wide, folded upward, oval to obovate-lanceolate; upper
    surface dark green, smooth or slightly rugose; lower surface
    light grayish-green; margin broadly crenate or coarsely
    serrate, tipped with dark red glands; petiole one-half
    inch long, glandless or with one to five small, reniform,
    greenish-yellow glands variable in position.

    Flower-buds conical, pubescent, plump, appressed; blooming
    season early; flowers pink, one and three-fourths inches
    across, well distributed; pedicels nearly sessile, glabrous,
    green; calyx-tube dull reddish-green, yellowish-green
    within, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes medium in length,
    narrow, acute, glabrous within, pubescent without; petals
    roundish-ovate, often broadly notched near the base, tapering
    to short, broad claws occasionally with a red base; filaments
    one-half inch long, shorter than the petals; pistil pubescent
    at the ovary, equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit matures early; two and one-half inches long, two
    and three-eighths inches wide, roundish, bulged near the
    apex, compressed, with unequal halves; cavity contracted,
    deep, narrow, abrupt; suture shallow, becoming deep at the
    extremities; apex roundish, with a small, mucronate tip; color
    creamy-white blushed with dull red, indistinctly striped with
    darker red; pubescence short, thick; skin tough, separates
    from the pulp; flesh white, juicy, stringy, tender, melting,
    sweet or with some sprightliness; fair to good in quality;
    stone semi-free to free, one and three-eighths inches long,
    one inch wide, oval, plump, tapering to a short, abrupt point,
    bulged near the apex, contracted toward the base, with grooved,
    light-colored surfaces; ventral suture deeply furrowed along
    the sides, narrow, winged; dorsal suture winged, grooved.


EARLY CRAWFORD

    =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 184. 1841. =2.= Hovey _Fr. Am._
    =1=:29, 30, Pl. 1851. =3.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 201. 1913.

    _Crawford's Early Melocoton._ =4.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 490.
    1845. =5.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:45, 46, fig. 21. 1866-73.

    _Crawford's Early._ =6.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 272, 273. 1854.
    =7.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 211. 1856. =8.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._
    42, 43. 1856. =9.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:104 fig. 105. 1879.
    =10.= _Fulton Peach Cult._ 192, 193. 1908.

    _Willermoz._ =11.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 76, 77. 1867. =12.=
    _Pom. France_ =6=: No. 10, Pl. 10. 1869. =13.= Lauche _Deut.
    Pom._ =VI=: No. 22, Pl. 1882. =14.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 418.
    1889.

Unproductiveness and uncertainty in bearing keep Early Crawford from
being the most commonly grown early, yellow-fleshed peach in America.
In its season, when well grown, it is unapproachable in quality by any
other peach and is scarcely equalled by any other of any season. The
peach has all of the characters that gratify the taste--richness of
flavor, pleasant aroma, tender flesh and abundant juice. Besides being
one of the very best in quality it is one of the handsomest peaches.
Unfortunately, this Station is one of the many places in which Early
Crawford is not at home and the accompanying illustration is far from
doing the variety justice in size, shape or color. At their best, the
fruits are larger, more rotund and more richly colored than shown in
_The Peaches of New York_. In soils to which it is well adapted the
peach is large, often very large, roundish-oblong, slightly compressed,
distinguished by its broad, deep cavity, rich red in the sun, splashed
and mottled with darker red, and golden yellow in the shade. The
flesh is a beautiful, marbled yellow, rayed with red at the pit and
perfectly free from the stone. The trees are all that could be desired
in health, vigor, size and shape but are unproductive and uncertain and
tardy in bearing. Yet with these faults Early Crawford, for at least
a half-century, was the leading market peach of its season giving way
finally to white-fleshed sorts of the Belle, Carman and Greensboro
type. Fast passing from commercial importance, Early Crawford ought
long to be grown in home plantations because of the beauty and
unexcelled quality of the fruit.

Early Crawford came into existence in the orchard of William Crawford,
Middletown, New Jersey, early in the Nineteenth Century. Its merits
were first set forth by William Kenrick in the _American Orchardist_
in 1832. The variety in some manner found its way to Europe and came
into the hands of Ferdinand Gaillard, a nurseryman at Brignais, Rhone,
France, but without a name. Gaillard, believing it to be a new sort,
gave it the name Willermoz in honor of M. Willermoz, Secretary of the
Pomological Congress of France. Later, French pomologists decided
that Gaillard's peach and Early Crawford were identical. The American
Pomological Society put this peach on its fruit-list in 1856 under the
name Crawford's Early. The name has several times been varied but today
the variety is listed as Early Crawford.

[Illustration: EARLY CRAWFORD]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, round-topped,
    often unproductive; trunk thick; branches stocky, smooth,
    reddish-brown very lightly tinged with ash-gray; branchlets
    with internodes of medium length, pinkish-red intermingled with
    darker red, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with numerous large and
    small, conspicuous, raised lenticels.

    Leaves six and three-fourths inches long, one and
    one-half inches wide, folded upward and recurved, oval
    to obovate-lanceolate, medium in thickness, leathery;
    upper surface dark green, usually smooth except along the
    prominent midrib; lower surface light grayish-green; margin
    finely serrate, often in two series, tipped with very fine,
    reddish-brown glands; petiole three-eighths inch long,
    glandless or with one to five small, globose, greenish-yellow
    glands variable in position.

    Flower-buds conical, heavily pubescent, free; blossoms appear
    in mid-season; flowers pale pink, less than one inch across,
    well distributed; pedicels very short, thick, glabrous, green;
    calyx-tube reddish-green, orange-colored within, obconic;
    calyx-lobes short, medium to narrow, acute, glabrous within,
    pubescent without; petals oval, broadly notched near the base,
    tapering to broad claws red at the base; filaments one-fourth
    inch long, equal to the petals in length; pistil often longer
    than the stamens.

    Fruit matures in early mid-season; two and one-half inches
    long, two and nine-sixteenths inches wide, round-oval or
    cordate, bulged near the apex, compressed, with unequal halves;
    cavity deep, wide, abrupt; suture shallow, becoming deeper
    near the apex; apex variable in shape, often with a swollen,
    elongated tip; color golden-yellow, blushed with dark red,
    splashed and mottled with deeper red; pubescence thick; skin
    separates from the pulp; flesh deep yellow, rayed with red near
    the pit, juicy, tender, pleasantly sprightly, highly flavored;
    very good in quality; stone free, one and one-half inches long,
    one inch wide, oval or ovate, bulged along one side, medium
    plump, with small, shallow pits in the surfaces; ventral suture
    deeply furrowed along the sides, medium in width, winged;
    dorsal suture grooved, slightly winged.


EARLY YORK

    =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 220. 1832. =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees
    Am._ 475, 476. 1845. =3.= _Horticulturist_ =2=:399. 1847-48.
    =4.= _Proc. Nat. Con. Fr. Gr._ 37, 38, 51. 1848. =5.= Hovey
    _Fr. Am._ =1=:45, Pl. 1851. =6.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 273.
    1854. =7.= Hooper _W. Fr. Book_ 221. 1857. =8.= _Mag. Hort._
    =23=:518. 1857. =9.= _Flor. & Pom._ 24, Pl. 1862. =10.= Hogg
    _Fruit Man._ 446. 1884. =11.= Fulton _Peach Cult._ 184. 1908.

    _Serrate Early York._ =12.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 290 fig.
    1849. =13.= _U. S. Pat. Off. Rpt._ 334. 1856.

    _York Précoce._ =14.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:115, 116, fig. 56.
    1866-73. =15.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:308, 309 fig., 310. 1879.

Early York is entitled to a place among the leading varieties of
peaches only because of the part it played in the beginning of the
peach-industry in America. As the history which follows shows, it
was one of the first named varieties to be grown in this country.
It is of more than passing interest, too, because it is one of
the few sorts with glandless leaves. The fruits of Early York are
insignificant, though the color-plate hardly does the variety justice,
but the vigorous, healthy, compact trees have much to recommend them
so that the variety might be used as a stepping-stone in improving
tree-characters of peaches.

No doubt several distinct varieties have been grown as Early York.
Large York, for example, which originated with Prince at Flushing,
New York, has probably been more often sold for Early York than any
other sort. Early Purple, a very old peach of European origin, was
introduced to America about the time Early York came to notice. In
some manner this variety has been confused with Early York, the name
often being given as a synonym of that variety. The two sorts, however,
are distinct and the error of connecting the name has led to much
misunderstanding. Early Purple disappeared from American cultivation
soon after its introduction and peaches sold under this name today are
probably Early York. A controversy has arisen as to the origin of Early
York, both America and England having been given as its home. That
Early York is of American origin, however, there can be little doubt.
Its parentage, the time and place of origin, however, are unknown. It
may have come in existence in New York, or possibly New Jersey or,
as some have thought, near York, Pennsylvania. The variety was sent
to Europe about the middle of the Nineteenth Century where Thomas
Rivers grew it at Sawbridgeworth and from it raised several promising
seedlings. The leaves of the variety are distinctly serrated, giving
rise to the name Serrate Early York. Red Rareripe, another variety
having serrated, glandless leaves, has often been confused with Early
York. The two are very similar but the fruit of Red Rareripe is larger,
broader and ripens about a week later. Early York was placed on the
list of recommended fruits at the National Convention of Fruit-Growers
in 1848 and since that time has had a place on the fruit-list of the
American Pomological Society.

[Illustration: EARLY YORK]

    Tree large, compact, upright-spreading, unproductive; trunk
    stocky; branches thick, smooth, reddish-brown tinged with
    light ash-gray; branchlets very long, dark pinkish-red with
    some green, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with conspicuous, raised
    lenticels variable in size, numerous at the base and well
    scattered along the branches.

    Leaves six inches long, one and one-half inches wide, folded
    upward, oval to obovate-lanceolate; upper surface dark green,
    smooth becoming slightly rugose along the midrib; lower
    surface light grayish-green; margin sharply serrate, tipped
    with reddish-brown glands; petiole seven-sixteenths inch long,
    glandless.

    Flower-buds conical or pointed, heavily pubescent, free;
    blossoms open very late; flowers seven-eighths inch across,
    pale pink, the edges darker; pedicels short, glabrous,
    green; calyx-tube reddish-green, yellow within, campanulate;
    calyx-lobes short, narrow, acute or obtuse, glabrous within,
    pubescent without; petals roundish-oval, broadly notched,
    tapering to short claws of medium width, sometimes stained with
    red at the base; filaments three-eighths inch long, shorter
    than the petals; pistil pubescent at the ovary, longer than the
    stamens.

    Fruit matures in early mid-season; two inches long, two and
    one-fourth inches wide, roundish to nearly oblate, somewhat
    oblique, with unequal halves; cavity shallow, flaring, with
    tender skin, often tinged with red; suture shallow, extending
    beyond the tip; apex variable in shape, with mucronate or
    sometimes mamelon tip; color pale white or creamy-white,
    blushed and mottled with carmine; pubescence thin, short;
    skin tough, adherent to the pulp until fully ripe; flesh
    white, rayed with red near the pit, juicy, stringy, tender and
    melting, mild subacid; good in quality; stone nearly free, over
    one inch long, three-fourths inch wide, oval, plump, flattened
    at the base, short-pointed at the apex, with pitted surfaces
    marked by few grooves; ventral suture narrow, with furrows of
    medium depth along the sides; dorsal suture deeply grooved.

EDGEMONT

    =1.= Harrison & Sons _Cat._ 18. 1901.

    _Edgemont Beauty._ =2.= Barnes Bros. _Cat._ 7. 1910. =3.= _Md.
    Sta. Bul._ =159=:159. 1911. =4.= Stark Bros. _Cat._ 35. 1913.

In fruit Edgemont is not easily distinguished from Late Crawford, the
essential differences being that the fruits of Edgemont are more rotund
than those of Late Crawford and the flavor is a little more acid. The
trees differ, chiefly, in the greater productiveness of Edgemont and
in a little later maturity of the crop. Of the score or more peaches
of the Crawford type, in many respects the best of the several types
of peaches, Edgemont is distinctly superior to all on our grounds.
Compared with Elberta, with which it must compete in the markets, it
is several days later, is juicier, less fibrous, much excels that
variety in quality and, though the individual peaches are not quite as
large, at Geneva the yield of fruit is even greater. If Edgemont proves
adapted to as wide a range of climates and soils as Elberta, we shall
have a new commercial peach of very great value. Whether it succeeds in
commerce or not, Edgemont is well worth planting in home orchards by
virtue of the exceptionally high quality and attractive appearance of
the fruit.

Edgemont, shortened from Edgemont Beauty, in accordance with the rules
of the American Pomological Society, is of rather recent origin, having
been introduced by the Miller Orchard Company, Edgemont, Maryland, in
1902.

[Illustration: EDGEMONT]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, productive; trunk
    stocky, smooth; branches thick, smooth; branchlets medium in
    thickness, purplish-red mingled with brown.

    Leaves large, obovate, medium in thickness; upper surface
    yellowish-green, somewhat wrinkled; margin crenate; glands
    globose.

    Flower-buds half-hardy, medium in size; flowers appear in
    mid-season, small, dark pink, well distributed, single;
    pedicels short, somewhat slender; petals ovate, entire;
    filaments long, sometimes longer than the petals.

    Fruit matures in late mid-season; large, irregular,
    roundish-ovate, truncate at the base, with unequal halves;
    cavity rather deep, medium to narrow, regular, abrupt; suture
    shallow; apex mucronate; color light yellow or orange-yellow,
    with a bronze blush often deepening to an attractive carmine
    blush; pubescence short, medium in thickness; skin thick,
    somewhat tough, separates from the pulp; flesh yellow, stained
    red at the pit, very juicy, slightly coarse and stringy, meaty,
    mild subacid or sprightly; very good in quality; stone free,
    large, oval, plump, pointed, with corrugated surfaces.

ELBERTA

    =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 66. 1881. =2.= _Am. Gard._ =9=:391 fig.
    1888. =3.= _Can. Hort._ =11=:281, 282. 1888. =4.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 30. 1889. =5.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 382, Pl. 1. 1891.
    =6.= _Can. Hort._ =17=:305, Pl. 1894. =7.= _Mo. Hort. Soc.
    Rpt._ 272, 273. 1896. =8.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:807 fig. 1896.
    =9.= _Can. Hort._ =23=:131, 132, fig. 1769. 1900. =10.= _Del.
    Sta. Rpt._ =13=:97 fig. 98. 1900. =11.= _Rural N. Y._ =60=:54,
    1901. =12.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:343, 344 fig. 1903.

Elberta leads all other peaches in number of trees in New York and in
America. It is, too, the most popular of all peaches in the markets. A
study of the variety, though it reveals some shortcomings, justifies
its popularity with orchardists and marketmen. The preeminently
meritorious character of Elberta is its freedom from local prejudices
of either soil or climate--it is the cosmopolite of cultivated
peaches. Thus, Elberta is grown with profit in every peach-growing
state in the Union and in nearly all, if not all, is grown in
greater quantities than any other market peach. The second character
which commends Elberta to those in the business of peach-growing is
fruitfulness--barring frosts or freezes the trees load themselves
with fruit year in and year out. Added to these two great points of
superiority are ability to withstand, in fair measure at least, the
ravages of both insects and fungi, large size, vigor, early bearing and
longevity in tree, and large, handsome, well-flavored fruits which ship
and keep remarkably well.

Elberta, however, is not without faults and serious ones. The trees are
not as hardy in either wood or blossom as might be wished. In northern
regions peaches of the Crosby, Chili, Smock and Wager type stand winter
freezes and spring frosts much better. The blossoms open rather too
early in New York. The peaches also fall short in quality. They lack
the richness of the Crawfords and the sweetness of the white-fleshed
Champion type. Moreover, the pronounced bitter tang, even when the
peaches are fully ripe, is disagreeable to some. Picked green and
allowed to ripen in the markets, Elberta is scarcely edible by those
who know good peaches. The stone is large but is usually wholly free
from the flesh. With these faults, the dominance of Elberta is not
wholly desirable as growers have a feeling of sufficiency with the one
variety and consumers are forced to put up with a peach none too high
in quality. Still, since no other variety is so reliable for the trade,
this, by the way, being about the only variety suitable for export by
reason of shipping qualities, Elberta promises long to continue its
commercial supremacy.

Elberta was grown by Samuel H. Rumph, Marshallville, Georgia, from a
seed of Chinese Cling planted in the fall of 1870. The Chinese Cling
tree stood near Early and Late Crawford trees and trees of Oldmixon
Free and Oldmixon Cling. Mr. Rumph believed that the Chinese Cling
blossom which produced Elberta was fertilized by pollen from Early
Crawford. The seedling was named Elberta in honor of Mr. Rumph's wife,
Clara Elberta Rumph. An interesting coincidence connected with the
origin of Elberta is that another stone from the same Chinese Cling
tree was given to L. A. Rumph and from this grew Belle, the splendid
white-fleshed, freestone peach. Nurserymen and growers frequently
produce strains of Elberta which they think superior to the older sort
but the several strains which have been tested on the grounds of this
Station have not proved to differ a whit from the old variety. From
the number of so-called "Early Elbertas" and "Late Elbertas" it may be
suspected that occasionally Elberta, because of some local condition,
ripens its fruit prematurely, or that ripening may be delayed; when
removed from the particular local environment, ripening time seems
to occur normally. Elberta was placed on the American Pomological
Society's fruit-list in 1889.

[Illustration: ELBERTA]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, dense-topped, hardy,
    very productive; trunk thick; branches stocky, smooth,
    reddish-brown intermingled with light ash-gray; branchlets with
    tendency to rebranch, with long internodes, olive-green lightly
    overspread with dark red, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with
    numerous conspicuous lenticels variable in size.

    Leaves six and three-fourths inches long, one and three-fourths
    inches wide, oval to obovate-lanceolate; upper surface dull,
    dark olive-green, mottled and somewhat rugose; lower surface
    grayish-green; margin finely to coarsely serrate, often in two
    series, tipped with reddish-brown glands; petiole three-eighths
    inch long, with one to six reniform, greenish-yellow glands
    medium in size and variable in position.

    Flower-buds large, pubescent, conical or obtuse, plump,
    appressed; flowers appear in mid-season; blossoms light
    pink near the center, darker pink toward the edges, one and
    one-fourth inches across; pedicels short, glabrous, green;
    calyx-tube reddish-green, orange-colored within, obconic,
    glabrous; calyx-lobes acute, glabrous within, pubescent
    without; petals oval to ovate, bluntly notched near the base,
    tapering to broad, short claws red at the base; filaments
    one-half inch long, shorter than the petals; pistil pubescent
    at the ovary, longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and three-fourths inches long,
    two and one-half inches wide, roundish-oblong or cordate,
    compressed, usually with a slight bulge at one side; cavity
    deep, abrupt to flaring, often mottled with red; suture
    shallow, deepening toward the apex; apex roundish, with a
    mamelon or pointed tip; color greenish-yellow changing to
    orange-yellow, from one-fourth to three-fourths overspread with
    red and with much mottling extending sometimes over nearly the
    entire surface; pubescence thick and coarse; skin thick, tough,
    separates from the pulp; flesh yellow, stained with red near
    the pit, juicy, stringy, firm but tender, sweet or subacid,
    mild; good in quality; stone free, one and eleven-sixteenths
    inches long, one and one-sixteenth inches wide, broadly ovate,
    varying from flat to plump, sharp-pointed, decidedly bulged on
    one side, with pitted surfaces; ventral suture deeply furrowed
    along the sides, narrow, winged; dorsal suture deeply grooved,
    strongly winged.


ENGLE

    =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 192, 296, 299. 1893. =2.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:213. 1899. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 37. 1909.
    =4.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:39, 40. 1910.

    _Engol's Mammoth._ =5.= _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta. Rpt._ =2=:58. 1895.
    =6.= _Ibid._ =6=:43. 1899.

Engle is almost a counterpart of the well-known Late Crawford from
which it differs essentially in earlier ripening fruit and more
productive trees. Before Elberta became the vogue, Engle stood high
in the esteem of commercial planters in Michigan and its culture was
rapidly spreading into other states but the coming of Elberta stopped
its career. There seems little doubt but that Engle is more productive
than either of the two Crawfords, splendid peaches which fail because
of unproductiveness, and for those who want the best it is as good as
any of this group--quite too good to be lost. One of the faults of the
two Crawfords is that the trees are tardy in coming in bearing. Engle
is said to bear younger. On the Station grounds the fruit drops rather
too readily but we do not find this fault mentioned by others.

Engle was grown some forty years ago by C. C. Engle, Paw Paw,
Michigan, with a number of seedlings, several others of which proved
valuable. Late Crawford may have been the seed parent but of this there
can be no certainty. The American Pomological Society added Engle to
its list of recommended fruits in 1909.

[Illustration: ENGLE]

    Tree very large, upright becoming spreading, tall, hardy,
    medium in productiveness; trunk thick, variable in smoothness;
    branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown covered with light
    ash-gray; branchlets long, heavily tinged with olive-green,
    glossy, smooth, somewhat tortuous, inclined to rebranch,
    glabrous, with numerous small, conspicuous, raised lenticels.

    Leaves six and one-fourth inches long, one and three-eighths
    inches wide, irregularly curled, oval to obovate-lanceolate,
    thin; upper surface rather dark, dull olive-green, rugose
    along the midrib; lower surface light grayish-green; apex
    narrow-acuminate; petiole three-eighths inch long, with one to
    four small, globose, greenish-yellow glands at the base of the
    leaf.

    Flower-buds large and long, conical, plump, pubescent, free;
    blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers light pink at the
    center, darker red near the edges, one and one-eighth inches
    across; pedicels very short, glabrous, green; calyx-tube dull
    reddish-green, orange-colored within, obconic, glabrous;
    calyx-lobes narrow, acute, glabrous within, heavily pubescent
    without; petals oval to slightly ovate, faintly and broadly
    crenate, tapering to claws with red base; filaments
    three-eighths inch long, shorter than the petals; pistil
    pubescent at the ovary, equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two inches long, two and
    seven-sixteenths inches wide, round-oval to cordate, becoming
    almost oblate in some specimens, bulged near the apex,
    compressed, with unequal sides; cavity abrupt to flaring;
    suture shallow, deepening toward the apex; apex variable
    in shape; color greenish-yellow changing to orange-yellow,
    in parts overspread with a bright red blush, splashed with
    darker red; pubescence short, thick, fine; skin thin, tough,
    separates readily from the pulp; flesh pale yellow, stained
    with red near the pit, juicy, tender and melting, sweet or
    pleasantly subacid, mild; good in quality; stone free, one
    and five-sixteenths inches long, fifteen-sixteenths inch wide
    ovate, bulged on one side, plump, with pitted surfaces; ventral
    suture very deeply grooved along the edges; dorsal suture
    grooved, often winged.


EUREKA

    =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 115. 1880. =2.= _Gard. Mon._
    =24=:211, 212. 1882. =3.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 42. 1895.
    =4.= _Mich Sta. Bul._ =205=:31. 1903.

In the South where Eureka originated, the variety seems to have a very
good reputation as an early, white-fleshed, semi-free peach. In New
York the variety ripens early, when there are many other good peaches
of its type, and it is therefore doubtful if it will ever have a
prominent place in peach-growing in this State. As the variety grows on
the Station grounds, one quality, in particular, marks Eureka as worthy
more attention than it now receives--the peaches are exceptionally
uniform in size. The color-plate, by the way, shows shape and color
very well but does not give a fair idea of the size, as the peaches
grow larger in average years. Though long grown, Eureka is worthy
further trial in New York.

Eureka is a seedling of Chinese Cling found nearly half a century ago
in Bossier Parish, Louisiana. It was introduced by L. T. Sanders and
Son, Plain Dealing, Louisiana.

[Illustration: EUREKA]

    Tree above medium in size, upright-spreading, round-topped,
    semi-hardy to hardy, very productive; trunk thick; branches
    stocky, smooth, reddish-brown overspread with very light
    ash-gray; branchlets with long internodes, reddish lightly
    intermingled with olive-green, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with
    numerous conspicuous, large lenticels.

    Leaves five inches long, one and seven-sixteenths inches wide,
    folded upward, variable in shape, leathery; upper surface dark
    green intermingled with olive-green, smooth becoming rugose
    near the midrib; lower surface grayish-green, with a prominent
    midrib; margin finely or coarsely serrate, glandular; petiole
    five-sixteenths inch long, with two to six large, reniform
    glands variable in color and position.

    Flower-buds somewhat tender, small, short, heavily pubescent,
    obtuse or conical, plump, usually appressed; blossoms open
    early; flowers one and thirteen-sixteenths inches across,
    pink, well distributed; pedicels very short, medium to thick,
    glabrous, green; calyx-tube reddish-green, greenish-yellow
    within, obconic; calyx-lobes usually broad, obtuse, glabrous
    within, pubescent without; petals oval or ovate, entire,
    broadly and shallowly crenate, tapering to long claws reddish
    at the base; filaments one-half inch long, shorter than the
    petals; pistil pubescent at the ovary, as long as the stamens.

    Fruit matures early; about two and seven-sixteenths inches in
    diameter, round or round-oval, bulged on one side, compressed,
    with unequal halves; cavity shallow, abrupt; suture shallow,
    deepening at the apex; apex flattened or more or less rounded,
    with mucronate tip; color greenish-white or creamy-white, often
    with a distinct, bright red blush overspreading one-third of
    the surface, with faint mottlings; pubescence fine, thick,
    short; skin thin, tender, separates from the pulp; flesh white,
    tender and melting, very juicy, pleasant flavored, good; stone
    free, one and one-half inches long, one inch wide, ovate to
    oval, tapering to a long point, with corrugated and deeply
    pitted surfaces; ventral suture winged, deeply grooved along
    the edges, narrow; dorsal suture a narrow groove.


FAMILY FAVORITE

    =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =22=:304. 1880. =2.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc.
    Rpt._ 114. 1880. =3.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:807 fig. 7. 1896.
    =4.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:99. 1901. =5.= Budd-Hansen _Am.
    Hort. Man._ =2=:344. 1903. =6.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 33. 1909.

Family Favorite is one of the well-known peaches in the South-Central
States but in most respects falls far short of Champion, with which it
must compete, in New York. The tree is doubtfully hardy and the fruit
scabs badly. The variety has two characters to commend it and to give
it standing among commercial peaches in New York: Compared with that
of Champion, the fruit stands shipment much better and when brown-rot
is rife, does not suffer nearly as much. In selected locations, then,
when a mid-season, white-fleshed peach is wanted, this variety is worth
trying.

Family Favorite is a seedling of Chinese Cling, possibly crossed with
Oldmixon Free. It was raised by the late William H. Locke, Bonham,
Fannin County, Texas. The exact date of its origin is unknown. The
variety was named and introduced by T. V. Munson, Denison, Texas. The
American Pomological Society added Family Favorite to its list of
fruits in 1909.

[Illustration: FAMILY FAVORITE]

    Tree of medium size, spreading, inclined to droop, open-topped,
    productive; trunk and branches intermediate in thickness;
    branches reddish-brown with a tinge of very light ash-gray;
    branchlets rather short, with internodes dark red intermingled
    with olive-green, glossy, smooth, curving, with numerous medium
    to small, conspicuous, raised lenticels.

    Leaves folded upward, six inches long, one and one-half inches
    wide, ovate-lanceolate; upper surface a dull, mottled, dark
    green mingled with olive-green, rugose along the midrib; lower
    surface light grayish-green; margin finely serrate, often
    in two series, tipped with reddish-brown glands; petiole
    three-eighths inch long, with one to four small, globose,
    greenish-yellow glands variable in position.

    Flower-buds small, obtuse to pointed, very plump, heavily
    pubescent, appressed; season of bloom early; flowers light
    pink at the center, darker pink along the edges, one and
    one-eighth inches across; pedicels short, glabrous; calyx-tube
    reddish-green, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes broad,
    obtuse, pubescent within, heavily pubescent toward the edges;
    petals oval to ovate, usually entire, tapering to narrow claws;
    filaments one-half inch long, equal to the petals in length;
    pistil pubescent at the base, longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and one-half inches long, two
    and three-eighths inches wide, roundish-oval to strongly oval,
    bulged near the apex, compressed, with unequal sides; cavity
    contracted, narrow, abrupt; suture a line, deepening toward
    the apex; apex roundish, with a small, mucronate tip set in
    a depression; color creamy-white, with a few splashes of red
    showing through a dull and mottled blush; pubescence short,
    thin; skin thin, tough; flesh greenish-white, strongly stained
    with red at the pit, very juicy, tender and melting, sweet or
    subacid, aromatic; good in quality; stone semi-free to free,
    tinged with red, one and one-half inches long, one inch wide,
    flattened near the base, elliptical, plump, winged on one side,
    with roughish and usually pitted surfaces; ventral suture
    deeply furrowed along the sides, narrow; dorsal suture grooved,
    irregular.


FITZGERALD

    =1.= _Can. Hort._ =18=:417. 1895. =2.= _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta.
    Rpt._ =2=:57. 1895. =3.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 235, 236.
    1896. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 33. 1899. =5.= Budd-Hansen _Am.
    Hort. Man._ =2=:344. 1903. =6.= _Can. Hort._ =27=:195 fig.
    1904. =7.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 196, 202. 1913.

Compare the color-plates of Fitzgerald and Early Crawford and it is
seen at once that the two peaches are almost identical in fruit and
foliage. There could be no use in growing Fitzgerald in this State,
so similar is it to the better-known Early Crawford, were it not for
the fact that the two differ in season a few days and that possibly
Fitzgerald is the more productive of the two. Fitzgerald ripens a few
days earlier than Early Crawford though in some of the references given
it is said to ripen a few days later. Canadian peach-growers claim that
Fitzgerald, besides being more productive and extending the season of
Early Crawford, is hardier. In the effort to maintain peaches of the
Crawford family in commercial plantations it may be worth while to try
Fitzgerald.

Fitzgerald originated a quarter of a century or more ago at Oakville,
Ontario, but who the originator or what the parentage is not known.
The American Pomological Society placed Fitzgerald on its list of
recommended fruits in 1899, a place it still holds.

[Illustration: FITZGERALD]

    Tree of medium size, upright-spreading, round-topped,
    hardy, not very productive; trunk smooth; branches smooth,
    reddish-brown covered with light ash-gray; branchlets long,
    with inclination to develop short, spur-like branchlets,
    pinkish-red or dark red intermingled with green, smooth,
    glabrous, with numerous conspicuous, rather small lenticels.

    Leaves six inches long, one and one-half inches wide, folded
    upward but recurved, oval to obovate-lanceolate; upper surface
    dark green tinged with olive-green, rugose; lower surface light
    grayish-green; margin finely serrate, tipped with reddish-brown
    glands; petiole one-half inch long, glandless or with one
    to five small, globose, greenish-yellow glands variable in
    position.

    Flower-buds hardy, conical, pubescent, plump, free; blossoms
    appear in mid-season; flowers pale pink varying to a deeper
    red along the edges, seven-eighths inch across; pedicels very
    short, slender, glabrous, green; calyx-tube reddish-green,
    orange-colored within, obconic, glabrous; calyx-lobes narrow,
    acute, glabrous within, heavily pubescent without; petals
    roundish-oval to ovate, white at the center, tapering to narrow
    claws often red at the base; filaments one-fourth inch long,
    equal to the petals in length; pistil pubescent at the ovary,
    equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and one-half inches long, more
    than two and one-half inches wide, roundish-oval to cordate,
    somewhat compressed, with unequal halves, bulged at one side;
    cavity medium to deep, wide, abrupt or often flaring, marked
    with radiating streaks; suture shallow, deepening toward the
    apex; apex roundish, ending in a recurved, mamelon point;
    color golden-yellow more or less overspread with a dull red
    blush, with splashes and mottlings of deeper red; pubescence
    long, thick; skin thin, tough; flesh yellow, rayed with red at
    the pit, juicy, rather firm, tender, sweet or mildly subacid,
    pleasant flavored; very good in quality; stone free, one and
    one-half inches long, one inch wide, ovate, plump, flattened
    near the base, with pitted surfaces; ventral suture very deeply
    furrowed along the sides; dorsal suture slightly winged.


FOSTER

    =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 32. 1869. =2.= _Am. Hort. Ann._ 82
    fig. 39. 1870. =3.= _Gard. Mon._ =12=:371. 1870. =4.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 1st App. 121. 1872. =5.= _Mich. Hort. Soc.
    Rpt._ 32, 260. 1874. =6.= _Cult. & Count. Gent._ =44=:678.
    1879. =7.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:345. 1903. =8.=
    Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 202. 1913.

    _Foster's Seedling._ =9.= _Am. Jour. Hort._ =2=:277 fig. 1867.

Foster is another very good peach of the Crawford type and at one
time was widely grown in all northern peach-regions. It is so similar
to Late Crawford that even experienced growers can hardly tell them
apart. Those who grow the two in the same orchard find the essential
differences to be: Foster is the larger peach, is more rotund, somewhat
more flattened at the base, is a little earlier, possibly handsomer
and is even of better quality than Late Crawford; the trees of Foster,
however, are hardly as productive as those of either of the two
unproductive Crawfords. This unproductiveness is the fault that keeps
the variety in the background as a commercial peach. The variety is
well worth planting in any home orchard.

Foster originated about 1857 with J. T. Foster, Medford, Massachusetts,
from the stone of a peach purchased by him in a Boston market. It
was awarded a place on the American Pomological Society's list of
recommended fruits in 1869.

[Illustration: FOSTER]

    Tree very large, vigorous, upright-spreading, hardy, variable
    in productiveness; trunk thick; branches stocky, smooth,
    reddish-brown intermingled with light ash-gray; branchlets
    spur-like, long, dark pinkish-red mingled with olive-green,
    glossy, smooth, glabrous, with numerous large and small
    lenticels raised at the base.

    Leaves six inches long, one and three-eighths inches wide,
    folded upward, oval to obovate-lanceolate, intermediate
    in thickness, leathery; upper surface dark green, smooth
    becoming rugose near the midrib; lower surface grayish-green;
    margin finely serrate, tipped with small glands; petiole
    seven-sixteenths inch long, with one to four small globose
    glands variable in color and position; flower-buds somewhat
    tender, conical or pointed, pubescent, free; blossoms appear in
    mid-season.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and seven-sixteenths inches
    long, more than two and one-half inches wide, round-cordate,
    often bulged at one side, compressed, with unequal sides;
    cavity deep, wide, flaring or somewhat abrupt, often splashed
    with red; suture shallow, becoming deeper at both apex and
    cavity and extending slightly beyond the point; apex roundish
    or pointed, with a recurved, mamelon or occasionally mucronate
    tip; color deep yellow overspread with dark red, with a few
    splashes or stripes of red; pubescence long, thick; skin thick,
    tough, separates from the pulp when fully ripe; flesh deep
    yellow, faintly stained with red near the pit, juicy, coarse
    and stringy, firm but tender, sweet, mild, spicy; very good in
    quality; stone free.


GENERAL LEE

    =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =29=:271. 1887. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 30.
    1889. =3.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:346. 1903.

    _R. E. Lee._ =4.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 21. 1877. =5.= _Gard.
    Mon._ =27=:275. 1885. =6.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:240. 1898.

    _Lee._ =7.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 22. 1897. =8.= _Del. Sta.
    Rpt._ =13=:104. 1901. =9.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._
    =2=:349. 1903.

General Lee is a white-fleshed clingstone, the fruit none too
attractive and surpassed by that of other varieties of its season in
quality. It is without value in the North. Southern growers say General
Lee is an improved Chinese Cling and as such well worth growing under
some conditions. It has the reputation of being quite susceptible to
brown-rot. The variety is offered by a good many nurserymen and we
discuss it only to condemn it for planting in New York. The variety,
as its history shows, really belongs to eastern Asia and thus arouses
interest.

General Lee originated with Judge Campbell, Pensacola, Florida, from
pits brought from Japan in 1860. In 1864 P. J. Berckmans received buds
from R. R. Hunley of Alabama and in 1867 introduced the sort under the
name General Lee. The American Pomological Society listed this peach
in 1889 as General Lee but in 1897 shortened the name to Lee and so it
appears in the Society's catalog at the present time. We prefer the old
name since when shortened it loses all significance as a commemorative
appellation.

[Illustration: GENERAL LEE]

    Tree very large, vigorous, spreading, unproductive; trunk
    thick, rough; branches reddish-brown tinged with light
    ash-gray; branchlets slender, with internodes dark red mingled
    with considerable green, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with
    numerous inconspicuous, raised lenticels variable in size.

    Leaves six and one-fourth inches long, one and one-half inches
    wide, flat or folded downward, oval to obovate-lanceolate,
    thick, leathery; upper surface dark, dull green, smooth; lower
    surface grayish-green; apex acuminate; margin coarsely serrate,
    tipped with reddish-brown glands; petiole nearly one-half inch
    long, with one to four large, reniform, reddish-brown glands
    variable in position.

    Flower-buds somewhat tender, large, conspicuous, very
    plump, conical to obtuse, strongly pubescent, appressed or
    slightly free; blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers one and
    thirteen-sixteenths inches across, pink, well distributed;
    pedicels short, glabrous, green; calyx-tube reddish-green
    at the base, greenish-yellow within, obconic, glabrous;
    calyx-lobes narrow, obtuse, glabrous within, pubescent without;
    petals narrow-oval, tapering to short, broad claws occasionally
    with reddish base; filaments seven-sixteenths inch long,
    shorter than the petals; pistil pubescent near the base, longer
    than the stamens.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and five-eighths inches
    long, two and one-half inches wide, round or roundish-oval,
    compressed, with halves equal; cavity deep, medium to wide,
    contracted around the sides, abrupt or flaring, often mottled
    with red; suture medium to deep, extending beyond the tip;
    apex mucronate, mamelon; color greenish-white changing to
    creamy-white, with a dull or lively red blush in which are
    intermingled a few splashes of duller red; pubescence coarse,
    long, thick; skin thick, tough, clings to the pulp; flesh
    white, stained with red near the pit, juicy, stringy, tender,
    sweet but sprightly, pleasantly flavored; good in quality;
    stone clinging, one and five-sixteenths inches long, one inch
    wide, bulged on one side, broadly oval to ovate, flattened,
    short-pointed at the apex, with pitted surfaces; ventral suture
    winged, narrow, deeply grooved along the edges; dorsal suture
    grooved.


GEORGE IV

    =1.= _Mas Le Verger_ =7=:49, 50, fig. 23. 1866-73. =2.= Leroy
    _Dict. Pom._ =6=:129 fig. 1879. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 37.
    1909. =4.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 202. 1913.

    _George the Fourth._ =5.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =6=:413.
    1826. =6.= _Pom. Mag._ =3=:105. Pl. 1830. =7.= Prince _Pom.
    Man._ =1=:192, 193. 1831. =8.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 478.
    1845. =9.= _Mag. Hort._ =13=:120, 121, 122. 1847. =10.= _Proc.
    Nat. Con. Fr. Gr._ 38, 51. 1848. =11.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_
    70. 1867. =12.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 447. 1884. =13.= Budd-Hansen
    _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:346. 1903.

Once one of the mainstays of American peach-growing, George IV is
now of but historical interest. This variety was one of the first
named American peaches and had the honor of being placed on the
recommended list of fruits at the first meeting of the National
Convention of Fruit-Growers, an organization which became the American
Pomological Society, in 1848. George IV is not worth planting now and
is illustrated and described in _The Peaches of New York_ only that
fruit-growers may note progress in the development of peaches. It is
interesting to note that this old American peach is still widely grown
in Europe.

George IV has been confused with several other sorts, particularly
Morris Red. Prince, in the _Magazine of Horticulture_, writes that
Morris Red is an old Red Rareripe brought to America from Europe by
Huguenot emigrants and that George IV came from buds of the original
tree of this variety. The consensus of opinion, however, among those
who early knew both peaches, is that Morris Red and George IV are
distinct and that both are of American origin. George IV, the best
authorities say, sprang up as a chance seedling, about 1821, in the
garden of a Mr. Gill, Broad Street, New York City. After fruiting, the
variety rapidly grew in favor and within a few years was everywhere
grown in eastern America. Taken to Europe, it soon became one of the
standard European peaches. From the first it was on the list in the
American Pomological Society's fruit-catalog but was dropped in 1897 to
be replaced in 1909. We doubt if it now deserves to be recommended on
any list of fruits.

[Illustration: GEORGE IV]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, hardy, unproductive;
    trunk thick; branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown covered
    with light ash-gray; branchlets dark red, with faint traces of
    green, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with numerous conspicuous,
    small lenticels.

    Leaves seven inches long, one and five-eighths inches wide,
    folded upward and recurved, oval to obovate-lanceolate, rather
    thick, leathery; upper surface dark green, smooth except
    near the midrib; lower surface grayish-green; margin sharply
    serrate, red; petiole three-eighths inch long, glandless or
    with one to three small, globose, reddish-brown glands usually
    at the base of the blade.

    Flower-buds short, obtuse, plump, heavily pubescent, appressed;
    blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers pale pink, with white
    centers and edged with darker pink, nearly one inch across;
    pedicels nearly sessile; calyx-tube reddish-green, light yellow
    within, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes medium in length and
    width, obtuse or acute, glabrous within, pubescent without;
    petals roundish-oval, tapering to claws red at the base;
    filaments one-fourth inch long, equal to the petals in length;
    pistil longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and five-sixteenths inches
    long, two and seven-sixteenths inches wide, roundish-oblate,
    bulged near the apex, oblique, with unequal sides; cavity
    slightly contracted, deep, wide, abrupt, with tender skin;
    suture shallow, becoming deeper at both apex and cavity and
    faintly showing beyond the tip; apex roundish, with a mucronate
    tip; color greenish-white changing to creamy-white, with a pink
    blush and sometimes with faint mottlings of red; pubescence
    short, thick, fine; skin thin, tough, variable in adherence
    to the pulp; flesh whitish, deeply tinged with red near the
    pit, juicy, stringy, tender, mild, pleasantly flavored; good
    in quality; stone semi-free to free, one and one-eighth inches
    long, three-fourths inch thick, roundish-oval, very plump,
    flattened at the base, tapering to a short, rounded point, with
    grooved surfaces; ventral suture winged, rather narrow; dorsal
    suture grooved.


GOLD DROP

    =1.= Kan. Hort. Soc. _Peach, The_ 142. 1899. =2.= _Mich. Sta.
    Bul._ =169=:214. 1899. =3.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._
    =2=:347. 1903. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 37. 1909.

    _Golden Drop._ =5.= _U. S. Pat. Off. Rpt._ 298. 1855. =6.=
    _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 243. 1886. =7.= _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta.
    Rpt._ =2=:58 fig. 1895. =8.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:42, 43
    fig., 44, 45. 1910.

Gold Drop, long a familiar variety in Michigan peach-orchards, is not
much grown elsewhere. It is doubtfully worth planting in New York as
a peach of commerce but should find a place in every home orchard.
The variety has several distinctive peculiarities which make it a
pleasing variation in the peach-orchard and add to its merits as a home
fruit. Thus, its transparent, golden skin and flesh make it one of
the handsomest of all peaches; add to handsome appearance a somewhat
distinctive flavor--vinous, rich, refreshing--and the peach becomes
one that all agree is very good and one that, were the size larger,
would sell in any market. Gold Drop is further characterized by great
hardiness in tree and bud and by remarkable productiveness. Indeed,
it loads itself so heavily that the peaches invariably run small
unless the trees are heavily pruned and the crop thinned--small size
of fruit is the greatest defect of the variety. Besides being one of
the hardiest of all peaches it is also about the least susceptible
to brown-rot and leaf-curl, the two worst scourges of the peach when
yellows permits the trees to live. Earliness in coming in bearing
is another admirable character. The trees are of but medium size,
are dainty in habits with clean, fresh foliage so that the variety
is an attractive ornamental. All in all, Gold Drop is ideal for
the home garden and has many good characters which can be used as
stepping-stones in breeding peaches.

The origin of Gold Drop is unknown. It is evidently an old sort and
some horticulturists believe it to be an old variety renamed. The
variety has been cultivated in Michigan orchards for many years under
the name Golden Drop given it by George W. Griffin, Casco, Allegan
County, Michigan, who introduced it. The variety was at one time
supposed to be the peach which is grown in Michigan as Yellow Rareripe
but it is not the Yellow Rareripe cultivated today. The American
Pomological Society listed it in its fruit-catalog in 1909 under the
name Gold Drop.

[Illustration: GOLD DROP]

    Tree of medium size and vigor, spreading, rather open-topped,
    hardy, very productive; trunk thick and smooth; branches
    stocky, smooth, reddish-brown with a covering of light
    ash-gray; branchlets slender, with internodes dull pinkish-red
    intermingled with green, smooth, glabrous, with conspicuous,
    raised lenticels.

    Leaves five and one-half inches long, one and one-fourth inches
    wide, folded upward and recurved, oval to obovate-lanceolate,
    leathery; upper surface dark green, mottled; lower surface
    grayish-green; margin finely serrate, tipped with red along the
    edge; petiole three-eighths inch long, with two to nine large,
    reddish-brown or grayish, mixed glands usually on the leaf.

    Flower-buds long, conical or obtuse, plump, somewhat appressed,
    pubescent; season of bloom early; flowers pale pink, one and
    three-fourths inches across, well distributed; pedicels short,
    medium to slender, glabrous, green; calyx-tube reddish-green,
    orange-colored within, obconic, glabrous; calyx-lobes broad,
    usually acute, glabrous within, pubescent without; petals
    ovate, notched near the base, tapering to long, narrow claws
    variable in color at the base; filaments one-half inch long,
    shorter than the petals; pistil pubescent at the ovary, equal
    to or longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures late; two and seven-sixteenths inches long,
    nearly two and one-half inches wide, roundish-oval, bulged
    at one side, with unequal halves; cavity deep, abrupt,
    twig-marked; suture very shallow, extending beyond the apex;
    apex roundish, with a slightly mamelon or mucronate tip; color
    greenish or golden-yellow, with a dull blush on one side;
    pubescence thick, coarse; skin adhering to the pulp; flesh pale
    yellow to the pit, variable in juiciness, pleasantly sprightly;
    good in quality; stone free, one and nine-sixteenths inches
    long, one and one-sixteenth inches wide, broadly ovate, bulged
    at one side, with a pointed apex and deeply grooved surfaces;
    ventral suture deeply grooved at the sides, rather narrow;
    dorsal suture with a deep groove, wing-like.


GOVERNOR HOGG

    =1.= Brown Bros. _Cat._ 27. 1906. =2.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._
    65, 66. 1907. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 37. 1909. =4.= _N. J.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 37. 1912. =5.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 202.
    1913.

    _Governor._ =6.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:101. 1901.

Were it not that Governor Hogg must compete with the well-established
Greensboro and Carman, we should say at once that it was well worth
trying in commercial planting in New York as an early, white-fleshed
peach. In the Station orchard, Governor Hogg ripens a few days after
Carman, is larger, handsomer and as good in quality. In both appearance
and quality, Governor Hogg excels Greensboro, the size, shape and color
of the two, as the illustrations show, being much the same though the
color of this variety runs more to reds and soft tints of red. The
flesh is firm, though tender and delicate, and the peaches ought to
stand shipment well. As with all of these early, white-fleshed peaches,
Governor Hogg is quite susceptible to both leaf-curl and brown-rot.

The parentage of this peach is unknown. It seems to have originated
with a Mr. McClung, Tyler, Texas, about 1892, and was disseminated by
Messrs. Sneed and Whitaker of the same place. The American Pomological
Society placed Governor Hogg on its fruit-list in 1909.

[Illustration: GOVERNOR HOGG]

    Tree large, upright-spreading, open-topped, hardy, variable
    in productiveness; trunk thick, reddish-brown intermingled
    with light ash-gray; branches slender, with short internodes,
    brownish mingled with red and ash-gray, glossy, smooth,
    glabrous, with many conspicuous, large and small lenticels.

    Leaves five and one-half inches long, one and one-half
    inches wide, folded upward and slightly recurved, usually
    oval-lanceolate, medium in thickness, leathery; upper surface
    dark olive-green, smooth; lower surface grayish-green; margin
    finely serrate, tipped with reddish-brown glands; petiole
    three-eighths inch long, glandless or with one to five
    reniform, reddish-brown glands of medium size, variable in
    position; flower-buds conical, plump, pubescent, appressed;
    blossoms open in mid-season.

    Fruit matures early; two and one-fourth inches long, more than
    two inches wide, oblong-oval, compressed, oblique; cavity deep,
    narrow, abrupt; suture shallow, becoming deeper at the cavity;
    apex depressed, with a mucronate tip; color creamy-white,
    blushed with red; pubescence short; skin thin, separates from
    the pulp; flesh white, juicy, stringy, meaty, rather tough;
    good in quality; stone clinging, one and three-eighths inches
    long, seven-eighths inch wide, obovate, plump, strongly bulged
    on one side, conspicuously winged, pointed at the base, with
    the surfaces grooved and pitted; ventral suture winged, narrow,
    with furrows of medium depth along the sides.


GREENSBORO

    =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 238. 1896. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 33. 1899. =3.= Kan. Hort. Soc. _Peach, The_ 49, 143.
    1899. =4.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:101 fig. 6, 102. 1901. =5.=
    _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta. Rpt._ =9=:37, 38. 1902. =6.= _W. N. Y.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 11. 1907. =7.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 202.
    1913. =8.= _N. Y. State Fr. Gr. Assoc. Rpt._ 16. 1915.

    _Balsey._ =9.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 289. 1893.

Greensboro is one of the leading early, white-fleshed peaches. It
takes high place because of its showy fruits and its large, vigorous,
healthy, early-bearing and prolific trees. In the last character,
in particular, Greensboro is almost supreme--year in and year out,
barring accidents, its trees are fruitful. Possibly, too, no other
white-fleshed peach is adapted to a greater variety of soils than
Greensboro which, with fair capacity to stand heat and cold, makes
it suitable for wide variations in peach-regions. The peaches, while
handsome, as the color-plate shows, are in no way remarkable, the
quality, if anything, being rather inferior, so that it is the tree
that gives Greensboro its standing. The variety is well thought of by
fruit-dealers not only on account of the attractive product but because
the fruits carry well and keep long. Possibly the peaches are less
susceptible to brown-rot than most other varieties of Greensboro's
season but to offset this advantage there are many cracked pits
and accompanying mal-formed fruits. Picked green the stone clings;
picked at maturity the variety may be called a freestone. All in all,
Greensboro is one of the best early, market peaches for New York.

Greensboro is a seedling of Connett grown by W. G. Balsey, Greensboro,
North Carolina, about 1891. It was introduced by John A. Young of
Greensboro as Balsey, this name being changed to Greensboro in 1894.
Greensboro was added to the list of fruits recommended by the American
Pomological Society in 1899.

[Illustration: GREENSBORO]

    Tree very large, spreading, open-topped, hardy, very
    productive; trunk thick, shaggy; branches stocky, smooth,
    reddish-brown covered with light ash-gray; branchlets
    slender, long, with short internodes, dark red intermingled
    with olive-green, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with very small,
    conspicuous lenticels.

    Leaves six and one-half inches long, one and one-half inches
    wide, folded upward, recurved, oval to obovate-lanceolate,
    thick, leathery; upper surface dark green, smooth, rugose along
    the midrib; lower surface grayish-green; margin finely serrate,
    tipped with reddish-brown glands; petiole one-half inch long,
    with one to five reniform, reddish-brown glands usually at the
    base of the blade.

    Flower-buds hardy, large, medium to long, conical or obtuse,
    very plump, strongly pubescent, usually free; season of bloom
    early; flowers pale pink, one and three-fourths inches across,
    usually in twos; pedicels very short, glabrous; calyx-tube dull
    reddish-green, lemon-yellow within, campanulate, glabrous;
    calyx-lobes very broad, obtuse, glabrous within, pubescent
    without; petals round-ovate, tapering to short, narrow claws
    red at the base; filaments one-half inch long, shorter than the
    petals; pistil pubescent at the base, equal to the stamens in
    length.

    Fruit matures early; two and one-half inches long, two and
    three-eighths inches wide, oblong-oval, often oblique,
    bulged at one side, compressed, with unequal sides; cavity
    deep, narrow, abrupt; suture shallow, deepening toward the
    cavity; apex roundish, with a small, mucronate tip; color
    creamy-white, blushed red, with a few stripes of darker red
    intermingling; pubescence heavy, nearly tomentose; skin rather
    tough, separates from the pulp; flesh white, very juicy,
    tender and melting, mild, sweet, sprightly; fair in quality;
    stone semi-clinging, one and seven-sixteenths inches long, one
    inch wide, winged on both sides, ovate, strongly bulged along
    one side, with short grooves on the surfaces; ventral suture
    narrow, deeply grooved along the sides; dorsal suture grooved,
    winged.


HALE EARLY

    =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =27=:65, 66. 1861. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 78. 1862. =3.= _Gard. Mon._ =5=:68, 69, 198, 277, 278.
    1863. =4.= _Horticulturist_ =18=:63, 64, 197, 198, 242, 243
    fig., 244. 1863. =5.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 615. 1869. =6.=
    _Horticulturist_ =27=:23, 304. 1872. =7.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._
    37. 1909.

    _Précoce de Hale._ =8.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:193, 194, fig. 95.
    1866-73.

    _Hale._ =9.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 44. 1891. =10.= _Mich. Sta.
    Bul._ =169=:215. 1899.

In the middle of the last century, Hale Early was considered the best
peach of its season for home and market. Even now it has several
characters to recommend it; as, large, vigorous, hardy, healthy,
productive trees, fruits handsome in color, uniform in size and shape,
with flesh more than ordinarily free from the stone for an early peach,
fair quality for the season and extreme earliness. The chief fault is
that the peaches run small in size, scarcely exceeding large marbles,
which they resemble in roundness. The variety must be grown in the
best of peach-lands, heavily thinned, and the trees severely pruned.
The peaches, besides being small, are very susceptible to brown-rot.
Nowhere very commonly planted, the variety is still widely distributed,
a fact, in view of the competition with many early peaches, which
speaks well for a peach introduced more than fifty years ago. It is
interesting to note that Hale Early was introduced into Europe many
years ago and that European pomologists still speak highly of it.

Hale Early grew from a seed planted in 1850 by a German named Moas at
Randolph, Portage County, Ohio. A few years later the attention of a
Mr. Hale, Summit County, Ohio, was called to the seedling and he,
impressed with its earliness, began to propagate it. About 1859 the
variety was introduced by Hale and Jewett, nurserymen in Summit County,
as Hale's Early German. In some localities it became known as Early
German but finally the name Hale's Early was adopted. It was so listed
in the American Pomological Society's fruit-catalog in 1862 but in 1891
the name was changed to Hale so to remain until 1909 when it appeared
in the Society's catalog as Hale Early. The adoption of the last name
is warranted, possibly, from the fact that another peach named Hale
existed several years before the origin of the present sort.

[Illustration: HALE EARLY]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, hardy, variable
    in productiveness; trunk thick; branches stocky, smooth,
    reddish-brown mingled with ash-gray; branchlets long, dark
    pinkish-red with a trace of olive-green, glossy, smooth,
    glabrous, with rather few large, conspicuous lenticels.

    Leaves flat or curled downward, six and one-fourth inches
    long, one and one-fourth inches wide, long-oval to
    obovate-lanceolate, thin, leathery; upper surface dark green,
    smooth; lower surface grayish-green; margin finely serrate,
    often in two series, tipped with reddish-brown glands; petiole
    three-eighths inch long, glandless or with one to four small,
    globose, reddish-brown glands usually at the base of the blade.

    Flower-buds conical or pointed, plump, pubescent, usually free;
    blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers dark pink at the center,
    with lighter pink toward the margin and with streaks of light
    pink along the veins, one and one-half inches across, usually
    single; pedicels short, glabrous, green, with a few reddish
    dots; calyx-tube dull green mottled with red, with varying
    shades of orange within, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes
    broad, usually obtuse, pubescent within and without, with
    longer hairs along the edges, erect; petals round or inclined
    to oval, entire, notched on both sides near the claws which
    are short, broad and tinged with red near the base; filaments
    one-half inch long, shorter than the petals; pistil finely
    pubescent at the ovary, longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures early; one and three-fourths inches long, one
    and seven-eighths inches wide, round, slightly compressed,
    with unequal halves; cavity regular, medium to deep, wide,
    flaring; suture shallow, with a slight bulge near the apex;
    apex roundish or flattened, ending abruptly in a short, sharp,
    recurved point; color creamy-white, with an attractive blush
    extending over one-half of the surface; pubescence short,
    thick; skin tough, free; flesh white, juicy, tender, sweet,
    with some astringency; good in quality; stone semi-free, one
    and five-sixteenths inches long, fifteen-sixteenths inch wide,
    ovate or oval, plump, with a short-pointed apex, surfaces
    marked by short grooves; ventral suture deep along the sides,
    narrow; dorsal suture deeply grooved, winged.


HEATH CLING

    =1.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 17. 1820. =2.= Kenrick _Am.
    Orch._ 234. 1832. =3.= _Proc. Nat. Con. Fr. Gr._ 51. 1848. =4.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 78. 1862. =5.= Fulton _Peach Cult._ 197,
    198. 1908.

    _Heath._ =6.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 228. 1817. =7.= _Lond.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 97. 1831. =8.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:29,
    30. 1832. =9.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 494, 495. 1845. =10.=
    Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 187, 188. 1846. =11.=
    Elliott _Fr. Book_ 274, 275. 1854. =12.= Mas _Le Verger_
    =7=:207, 208, fig. 102. 1866-73. =13.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 37.
    1909.

    _White English._ =14.= _Horticulturist_ N. S. =7=:178, 179.
    1857.

Heath Cling is unquestionably the oldest named American peach now
under cultivation. Its antiquity constitutes about its only claim
to recognition though for its tree-characters and for at least one
fruit-character it ought to be retained for breeding. Few varieties
have larger, healthier, hardier trees than Heath Cling, the fact that
the oldest of our peaches has from the first retained these characters
in pristine vigor confuting the notion that varieties degenerate. In
the descriptions of Chinese peaches in Chapter 1, we read of winter
peaches--sorts that could be kept for three or four months after
picking. Of all American peaches, Heath Cling, possibly, most nearly
approaches these Chinese winter peaches. It has been known to keep
in good condition from October to December. Its quality, at best, is
good but often it runs poor. Well grown, the peach has a sweet, rich,
vinous taste but the flesh adheres so tightly to the stone that it is
not pleasant eating out of hand though splendid cooked, preserved or
pickled, the stone in culinary operations imparting a pleasant flavor
of peach-pit bitterness. It is the best of all peaches to preserve or
pickle whole. The color-plate shows the blushed sides of Heath Cling
and therefore too much red for typical specimens of this variety.

Just how old Heath Cling is no one knows but it probably was grown
in the colonies before the Revolution. Two accounts are given of its
origin. According to one it originated with Daniel Heath of Maryland
from a pit brought from the Mediterranean. Another is that the honor of
originating this peach belongs in the Prince family and that the first
William Prince discovered the variety growing wild on the farm of Judge
Willet, Flushing, New York. The Princes, according to this account,
gave it the name Heath because it was found on a barren heath. It seems
fairly well established that the variety was in the Prince orchards
before the Revolutionary War whether or not it was found and named by
them.

[Illustration: HEATH CLING]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, hardy, unproductive;
    trunk shaggy; branches stocky, reddish-brown covered with
    light ash-gray; branchlets long, dark red intermingled
    with olive-green, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with numerous
    conspicuous, large, raised lenticels.

    Leaves six and one-fourth inches long, one and one-half inches
    wide, folded upward, recurving, oval to obovate-lanceolate,
    leathery; upper surface dark green, rugose; lower surface
    grayish-green; margin finely serrate, tipped with reddish-brown
    glands; petiole one-half inch long, with two to seven small,
    mostly reniform, reddish-brown glands usually at the base of
    the leaf.

    Flower-buds tender, medium to small, short, conical or pointed,
    plump, pubescent, free; blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers
    a faded pink, white at the center of the petals, about
    three-fourths inch across; pedicels short, medium to thick,
    glabrous, green; calyx-tube reddish-green; calyx-lobes short,
    broad, obtuse, glabrous within, pubescent without; petals
    roundish-oval, tapering to short, broad claws occasionally with
    a red base; filaments one-fourth inch long, shorter than the
    petals; pistil pubescent near the base, longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures very late; two and one-eighth inches long,
    two and one-fourth inches wide, round-oval, compressed and
    somewhat angular, with unequal sides; cavity variable in
    depth and width, abrupt or flaring; suture shallow, extending
    beyond the apex; apex ending in a swollen, pointed tip; color
    creamy-white, blushed with red, splashed and mottled with
    darker red; pubescence short, thick, fine; skin thin, adhering
    to the pulp; flesh white, juicy, firm and meaty but tender,
    sweet or somewhat sprightly; good in quality; stone clinging,
    one and one-fourth inches long, seven-eighths inch wide, oval,
    plump, flattened and pointed toward the base, tapering to a
    short point at the apex, with dark brown, grooved surfaces;
    ventral suture deep along the sides, thick, furrowed; dorsal
    suture grooved.


HEATH FREE

    =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 37. 1909. =2.= Waugh _Am. Peach
    Orch._ 203. 1913.

    _Kenrick Heath._ =3.= Prince _Treat. Hort._ 17. 1828. =4.=
    Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:30, 31. 1832. =5.= Downing _Fr. Trees
    Am._ 479. 1845. =6.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 78. 1862. =7.=
    Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:348. 1903.

    _Heath._ =8.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 226, 227. 1832.

Heath Free is now rarely planted, being replaced by better sorts--in
fact it was out of date a quarter-century ago when the American
Pomological Society dropped it from its fruit-list. We can see no
justification of the Society's action in restoring the variety to its
list ten years later. The tree-characters of Heath Free seem to be,
in the main, very good but the peaches are not at all attractive in
appearance and none too good in quality--at best it is but a culinary
sort. Possibly it is worth growing under some conditions as a late,
white-fleshed peach.

Heath Free is another old variety, a native of New England. Kenrick,
one of the first American pomologists, received the variety from
General Heath, Roxbury, Massachusetts, early in the Nineteenth Century.
Later, Kenrick sent it to Prince at Flushing, New York, who is credited
with having distributed it. The variety should not be confused with
Heath Cling. Ripening at the latter end of the peach-season, the term
"Late" is often attached to the name. In 1862 the American Pomological
Society put this peach on its fruit-list under the name Kenrick
Heath but dropped it from the list in 1899. Ten years later, 1909, the
variety was replaced in the Society's catalog as Heath Free.

[Illustration: HEATH FREE]

    Tree very large, vigorous, upright-spreading, open-topped,
    unproductive; trunk thick, somewhat shaggy; branches stocky,
    smooth, reddish-brown covered with very light ash-gray;
    branchlets long, with many short, spur-like branches near the
    tips, with internodes dark red intermingled with olive-green,
    glossy, smooth, glabrous, with numerous conspicuous lenticels,
    raised near the base and tip.

    Leaves seven and one-eighth inches long, one and three-fourths
    inches wide, folded upward, recurved slightly, long-oval
    to obovate-lanceolate, rather thin; upper surface dark
    green, smooth becoming rugose near the midrib; lower surface
    grayish-green; margin finely serrate, with reddish-brown
    glands; petiole one-half inch long, with two to five reniform,
    reddish-brown glands usually on the petiole.

    Flower-buds half-hardy, conical or pointed, very pubescent,
    free; blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers dark pink along
    the margins of the petals changing to white toward their
    centers, well distributed; pedicels short, glabrous, green;
    calyx-tube reddish-green, yellow within, campanulate, glabrous;
    calyx-lobes short, narrow, acute to obtuse, glabrous within,
    pubescent without; petals small, narrow-oval, often broadly
    notched near the base, tapering to short, broad claws red at
    the base; filaments one-fourth inch long, equal to the petals
    in length; pistil pubescent at the base, longer than the
    stamens.

    Fruit matures in late mid-season; two and one-eighth inches
    long, two and one-fourth inches thick, roundish-oval to
    oblong-oval, often strongly compressed, with halves nearly
    equal; cavity medium to shallow, wide, flaring, contracted
    along the sides, with tender skin; suture shallow; apex
    roundish, with a depressed, mucronate tip; color creamy-white,
    blushed or mottled with red, with splashes of deeper red;
    pubescence rather coarse, thick; skin thick, tough, adherent
    to the pulp; flesh white, bronzed at the pit, juicy, coarse,
    firm but tender, mild subacid with some astringency; good in
    quality; stone free, one and three-eighths inches long, one
    inch wide, flattened near the base, oval, with long grooves
    deeply sunken in the surfaces; ventral suture deeply furrowed
    along the edges, wide; dorsal suture grooved, faintly winged.


HILEY

    =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 170. 1899. =2.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._
    =13=:102 fig. 7, 103. 1901. =3.= _U. S. D. A. Yearbook_ 271,
    272, Pl. 34. 1903. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 37. 1909.

    _Early Belle._ =5.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:342. 1903.
    =6.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 12. 1907.

In spite of keen competition with many other early, white-fleshed
peaches, there seems to be a place for Hiley. Two characters make
it notable in its class. It is the earliest commercial freestone,
white-fleshed peach and it is rather better in quality than most of its
competitors. Well grown, the peaches are large in size and handsomely
colored but the fruits are not quite as uniform in either size or
color as could be desired for a commercial variety. The trees, while
productive, are neither large nor sufficiently hardy and vigorous to
make an ideal commercial sort. Still, we must end as we began, with the
statement that there is a place for Hiley because of earliness and high
quality. The fruits, unfortunately, are easy prey to brown-rot.

Hiley originated with Eugene Hiley, Marshallville, Georgia, about
1886. Seeds of several varieties, including Belle and Elberta, were
planted and from these sprang one tree which bore the fruit under
discussion. R. A. Hiley, who seems to have first discovered its value,
is of the opinion that this variety is a seedling of Belle crossed
with Alexander. The new peach was first named Early Belle and the
first crops were shipped under this name. Later the name was changed
to Hiley. The American Pomological Society placed the variety on its
fruit-list in 1909.

[Illustration: HILEY]

    Tree medium in size, lacking in vigor, upright-spreading,
    open-topped, very productive; trunk thick; branches stocky,
    smooth, reddish-brown covered with light ash-gray; branchlets
    with short internodes, brownish-red heavily overlaid with
    olive-green, smooth, glabrous, with conspicuous lenticels
    variable in number and size.

    Leaves six and one-fourth inches long, one and one-half inches
    wide, folded upwards to nearly flattened, narrow-oval to
    obovate-lanceolate, leathery; upper surface dull, dark green,
    mottled, nearly smooth; lower surface grayish-green; margin
    finely serrate, tipped with reddish-brown glands; petiole
    three-eighths inch long, glandless or with one to eight small,
    globose and reniform, greenish-yellow glands variable in
    position.

    Flower-buds tender, obtuse, plump, heavily pubescent, appressed
    or nearly so; blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers pink,
    one and seven-eighths inches across, often in twos; pedicels
    glabrous, greenish; calyx-tube dull, dark reddish-green,
    greenish-yellow within, obconic, glabrous; calyx-lobes broad,
    obtuse, glabrous within, heavily pubescent without; petals
    roundish-ovate, tapering to long, broad claws red at the base;
    filaments one-half inch long, shorter than the petals; pistil
    pubescent at the ovary, equal to or often longer than the
    stamens.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and three-eighths inches
    long, two and one-fourth inches thick, roundish-conic to
    oblong-conic, bulged near the apex, with unequal halves; cavity
    abrupt, the skin tender and tearing easily; suture shallow,
    deepening toward the apex; apex pointed; color greenish-yellow
    with a dull blush often extending over one-half the surface,
    more or less mottled; pubescence thick, fine, short; skin
    thin, tough, separates from the pulp when fully ripe; flesh
    creamy-white, stained red at the pit, stringy, firm but tender,
    with a distinct, pleasant flavor, sprightly; good in quality;
    stone semi-free to free, one and three-eighths inches long,
    seven-eighths inch wide, elliptical to ovate, pointed at both
    ends, with nearly smooth surfaces; ventral suture rather wide
    and with deep furrows along the sides; dorsal suture a small
    groove.


HYNES

    =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:812. 1896. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._
    33. 1899. =3.= _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:14 fig. 1901. =4.=
    Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:348. 1903.

    _Hynes Surprise._ =5.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 50. 1879.
    =6.= _Ibid._ 111. 1880. =7.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 42. 1895.

Coming at a season when there are several very good, white-fleshed
peaches, we doubt whether Hynes can establish itself in the peach-list
for New York. The peaches are not quite large enough and the stone
clings a little too tenaciously for a first-class early peach. The
flavor is good for an early peach and when large enough the fruits are
attractive, shape and coloring being particularly pleasing. Hynes was
at one time highly recommended, widely advertised and largely sold in
New York by nurserymen and fruit-growers in this State. We doubt if
many are now planting it. The color-plate is an excellent reproduction
of the variety.

Hynes was grown about 1877 by E. F. Hynes, West Plains, Missouri.
Its parentage is unknown. The variety soon became disseminated as
a valuable early, commercial peach. At first it was known as Hynes
Surprise but gradually the name has been shortened to Hynes. The late
S. D. Willard, Geneva, New York, grew and recommended this variety
for a number of years and by some has been given the credit of having
originated and introduced it. The American Pomological Society put
Hynes on its fruit-list in 1899.

[Illustration: HYNES]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, open-topped, hardy,
    medium in productiveness; trunk thick; branches stocky, smooth,
    reddish-brown with a small amount of ash-gray; branchlets long,
    with internodes of medium length, dark red intermingled with
    olive-green, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with conspicuous, large
    lenticels.

    Leaves six and one-half inches long, about one and one-half
    inches wide, oval to obovate-lanceolate, leathery, dull, dark
    green, smooth; lower surface grayish-green; apex tapering
    to a long, narrow point; margin finely serrate, tipped with
    reddish-brown glands; petiole three-eighths inch long, with
    one to five small, globose, brownish-yellow glands variable in
    position.

    Flower-buds hardy, small, short, obtuse, plump, slightly
    pubescent, usually appressed; blossoms appear in mid-season;
    flowers dark pink at the center, light pink near the edges,
    often in twos; pedicels short, medium to thick, glabrous,
    greenish; calyx-tube reddish-green, greenish-yellow within,
    campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes short, medium to broad,
    obtuse, glabrous within, pubescent without; petals broadly
    oval, irregular in outline, tapering to claws often red at the
    base; filaments one-half inch long, shorter than the petals;
    pistil pubescent near the base, equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit matures early; two and one-half inches long, two and
    one-fourth inches wide, round-oblate, with halves usually
    equal; cavity wide, flaring; suture shallow, becoming deeper
    near the tip; apex flattened or roundish, ending abruptly in
    a short, sharp point; color greenish or creamy-white, with
    a dull, dark red blush, splashed and mottled with carmine;
    pubescence thin, short, fine; skin thin, tender, variable in
    adherence to the pulp; flesh greenish-white, with a red stain
    under the skin and often rayed with red about the pit, juicy,
    stringy, tender and melting, sweet, mild; fair to good in
    quality; stone nearly free, one and one-fourth inches long,
    seven-eighths inch wide, bulged on one side, ovate, very plump,
    with surfaces pitted and with short, narrow grooves; ventral
    suture furrowed, very deeply grooved at the edges; dorsal
    suture wide, deeply grooved.


ILLINOIS

    =1.= _N. J. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 36. 1912. =2.= Stark Bros. _Cat._
    37 fig. 1913. =3.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 203. 1913. =4.=
    Stark Bros. _Cat._ 43. 1914.

Illinois is a mid-season, white-fleshed, freestone peach, still on
probation with what result as to commercial possibilities we should not
like to predict. It has been little tried in New York and growers in
other peach-regions are not in accord as to its value. In size, color
and shape of fruit, as the color-plate shows, Illinois is one of the
beauties of the orchard. Yet, all things considered, the new variety is
not as good as Champion with which it would have to compete. Neither
tree- nor fruit-characters are quite satisfactory as the variety grows
on the Station grounds. It must be apparent, too, to all peach-growers
that the industry is overloaded with white-fleshed peaches which at
best must be sold in nearby markets or grown for home use.

Illinois originated about 1910 on the grounds of E. H. Riehl near North
Alton, Illinois. It is supposed to be a cross between Stark Heath and
Washington.

[Illustration: ILLINOIS]

    Tree medium in size and vigor, upright to spreading, hardy,
    very productive; trunk thick; branches stocky, smooth, dark
    reddish-brown overlaid by ash-gray; branchlets slender, short,
    with internodes dark red and olive-green, smooth, glabrous,
    with a few inconspicuous, raised lenticels variable in size.

    Leaves five and one-half inches long, one and one-half inches
    wide, curled under at the tips, ovate-lanceolate, thin,
    leathery; upper surface dull, dark green, rugose along the
    midrib; lower surface olive-green; margin deeply and sharply
    serrate, the serrations often in two series, tipped with small
    glands; petiole three-eighths inch long, glandless.

    Flower-buds medium to large, obtuse or conical, plump,
    pubescent, appressed; blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers
    variable in color, over one inch across, often in twos;
    pedicels short, greenish, glabrous; calyx-tube reddish-green,
    greenish-yellow within, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes
    medium to broad, obtuse, glabrous within, pubescent without;
    petals oval, crenate, often broadly notched near the base,
    tapering to narrow claws with a tinge of red at the base;
    filaments one-half inch long, equal to the petals in length;
    pistil pubescent at the base, as long as the stamens.

    Fruit matures in early mid-season; two and one-fourth inches
    long, two and one-half inches wide, round-oblate, compressed,
    the halves usually unequal; cavity deep, abrupt, often tinged
    with red; suture shallow, deepening toward the apex; apex
    roundish, with a mucronate tip; color creamy-white, blushed
    with dull, dark red and mottled with splashes of brighter red;
    pubescence heavy; skin tough; flesh white, stained red near
    the pit, juicy, tender and melting, sweet; good in quality;
    stone semi-free to free, one and one-fourth inches long,
    fifteen-sixteenths inch wide, oval or obovate, not bulged,
    slightly elongated toward the base, plump, short-pointed at the
    apex, with grooved and pitted surfaces; ventral suture winged,
    of medium width, deeply grooved along the edges; dorsal suture
    deeply grooved.


IMPERIAL

    =1.= _La. Sta. Bul._ =27=:943. 1894. =2.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._
    =39=:819. 1896. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 22. 1897. =4.= _Ala.
    Sta. Bul._ =117=:305. 1901. =5.= _Fla. Sta. Bul._ =73=:148,
    Pls. 3 & 4. 1904. =6.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 37. 1909. =7.=
    _Ala. Sta. Bul._ =156=:133. 1911.

Of the several honey-flavored peaches fruiting on the Station grounds,
Imperial is probably the best. The fruit is not easily distinguished
in appearance from that of Climax, at least by those unfamiliar with
southern peaches, and is also rather closely allied to Honey in outward
character but has a somewhat distinct flavor in which it surpasses
Climax and Honey. It differs from both, too, in time of ripening. The
peaches of this, as of other honey-flavored sorts, drop badly as they
mature. It is doubtful if we shall ever grow pure-bred peaches of the
Honey type in New York for the markets, but Imperial, at least, is
worth a place in every home orchard where it does not have to brave too
great a degree of cold; and peach-breeders should seize the opportunity
to cross it with our less richly flavored northern varieties.

Imperial is a seedling of Honey grown in 1890 by G. L. Taber, Glen
Saint Mary, Florida. This variety has been much confused with White
Imperial, a sort grown in New York many years ago but long since out of
cultivation. Pomologists frequently list White Imperial as a synonym
of Imperial, giving the origin as New York, when the variety in mind
is the true Imperial of southern origin. Imperial was listed in the
American Pomological Society's catalog in 1897 but was dropped in 1899.
It appears again, however, in the Society's catalog in 1909 under the
name Imperial with White Imperial incorrectly given as a synonym.

[Illustration: IMPERIAL]

    Tree medium in size or small, upright-spreading, round-topped,
    productive; trunk thick, rough; branches stocky, roughened,
    reddish-brown intermingled more or less with ash-gray;
    branchlets slender, often rebranching, long, with internodes
    dark pinkish-red mingled with varying shades of olive-green,
    and with conspicuous, numerous, raised lenticels.

    Leaves six and one-fourth inches long, one and one-half inches
    wide, flattened, lanceolate, leathery; upper surface dull, dark
    green; lower surface olive-green; margin finely and shallowly
    serrate, tipped with glands; petiole three-eighths inch long,
    with one to four small, reniform glands usually at the base of
    the blade.

    Flower-buds small, medium to short, conical or obtuse,
    pubescent, plump, usually appressed; blossoms appear in
    mid-season; flowers medium in size, showy, light pink, usually
    single; pedicels medium in length and thickness, green;
    calyx-tube reddish-green, orange-green within, obconic;
    calyx-lobes acute or obtuse, glabrous within, pubescent
    without; petals roundish, tapering to claws tinged with red at
    the base; filaments equal to or shorter than the petals; pistil
    pubescent.

    Fruit matures late; two and one-half inches long, two and
    three-sixteenths inches wide, oval, with unequal halves; cavity
    shallow, medium in width, flaring; suture very shallow, often
    indistinct toward the cavity; apex distinctly elongated; color
    pale green becoming whitish, with faint mottlings and with a
    distinct or faint blush; pubescence short, thick; skin tough,
    adhering to the pulp; flesh white, stained with red near the
    pit, juicy, fine-grained, tender and melting, very sweet and
    of a delightful flavor; very good to best; stone free, one and
    three-eighths inches long, thirteen-sixteenths inch wide, oval
    or ovate, not very plump, bulged at one side, long and pointed
    at the apex, with roughish and pitted surfaces, dark brown
    mingled with purplish-red; ventral suture rather narrow, often
    winged, deeply grooved along the edges; dorsal suture grooved.


IRON MOUNTAIN

    =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =152=:197, 200. 1898. =2.= _Ibid._
    =169=:217. 1899. =3.= _Rural N. Y._ =58=:738 fig. 271. 1899.
    =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 37. 1909. =5.= Waugh _Am. Peach
    Orch._ 203. 1913.

Hardiness is the outstanding character which has brought Iron Mountain
into prominence. The introducer and many growers claim extreme
hardiness of wood and bud for the variety--others say that it is
surpassed by Crosby, Wager and other varieties of their type. The
trees on the Station grounds turned out not to be true to name so
that we can offer no data as to hardiness. Iron Mountain is a very
late, white-fleshed, freestone peach well adapted for extending the
commercial limits for this fruit in regions where fall frosts hold
off sufficiently long for the fruit to ripen. The tree-characters are
reported by most growers as very satisfactory and the peaches serve
very well for culinary purposes but are not sufficiently attractive
for a dessert fruit though the quality is excellent. There seem to be
two varieties, much alike in fruit, passing under this name; one is
large-flowered, the other small-flowered. This variety might well be
planted in New York for some markets; as, for example, near towns and
cities where it is desirable to extend the local market as late as
possible.

Iron Mountain seems to have originated in New Jersey about a
quarter-century ago but nothing is known of its parentage or by whom
grown. The variety was introduced by J. H. Lindley, Whitehouse, New
Jersey. It was put on the fruit-list of the American Pomological
Society in 1909.

[Illustration: IRON MOUNTAIN]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, open-topped, not
    always productive; trunk thick; branches smooth, dark ash-gray
    mingled with reddish-brown; branchlets medium to slender, with
    internodes of medium length, greenish-brown, smooth, glabrous,
    with numerous small, raised lenticels.

    Leaves six inches long, one and one-half inches wide, folded
    upward and recurved, oval to obovate-lanceolate, medium in
    thickness, leathery; upper surface dark green, smooth; lower
    surface light green, with a prominent midrib; margin glandular,
    finely serrate; petiole three-eighths inch long, with one to
    six reniform glands of medium size, usually on the petiole;
    flower-buds medium to small, conical, free; season of bloom
    late; flowers small.

    Fruit matures very late; two and three-fourths inches long,
    two and five-eighths inches thick, oblong-oval, often bulged
    on one side, compressed; cavity contracted, below medium in
    depth, flaring; suture shallow, extending only to the tip;
    apex distinctly mucronate or roundish, sometimes tapering;
    color pale greenish or creamy-white, occasionally with a
    light blush; pubescence heavy; skin medium to thin, tender,
    adherent to the pulp; flesh white, stained brown next to the
    pit, juicy, tender, sweet, mild; quality good; stone semi-free
    one and five-eighths inches long, more than one inch wide,
    somewhat wedge-like at the base, obovate, plump, long-pointed
    at the apex, winged, with large, wide and deep grooves in the
    surfaces; ventral suture with wide, deep furrows; dorsal suture
    grooved deeply, winged.


J. H. HALE

    =1.= W. P. Stark _Cat._ 45-55. 1913. =2.= Waugh _Am. Peach
    Orch._ 203. 1913.

Of many new peaches, J. H. Hale is now the leading aspirant for
pomological honors. Indeed, it is one of the sensations of the
pomological world, the variety having many merits to commend it and the
name and fame of the originator and of the introducers, together with
extensive advertising, helping much to bring the peach to the attention
of fruit-growers. Elberta is now the standard commercial peach and,
since J. H. Hale must make its way in competition with the variety in
command of the markets, we can best set forth the characters of the
new sort by comparing it with Elberta with which all are familiar. The
comparison is easy to make, for the two peaches are of the same general
type, Elberta, probably, being one of the parents of J. H. Hale.

In size of fruit, J. H. Hale averages larger--all things considered a
trifle too large when the trees are at their best. The flesh of J. H.
Hale is firmer and heavier and the peaches will ship and keep longer
than those of Elberta. In shape, the fruit is almost a perfect sphere,
its symmetry being scarcely marred by the suture so that it is more
shapely than the oblong Elberta and can, of course, be packed to better
advantage. The color-plates of the two peaches show the differences in
shape very well. In color of fruit there is no choice--both peaches
are voluptuously handsome. The skin of J. H. Hale is less pubescent
and possibly a little firmer and tighter, characters adding to the
appearance and shipping qualities of the fruit. It is but an invitation
to argument to say which is the better in the characters that go to
please the palate--flavor, aroma, texture and juiciness. Neither, in
comparison with many other peaches, can be rated as extra good.

Unfortunately we cannot be as certain of the merits of the trees of the
two varieties as we are of the fruits. This much we know, J. H. Hale
is a few days earlier than Elberta and its trees and buds are hardier
than those of Elberta. Which is the more productive is not certain and
this can be ascertained only when data can be had from a large number
of growers since productiveness in both is bound to vary with the
soil. The greatest asset of Elberta is its ability to adapt itself to
diverse soils; whether J. H. Hale is equally elastic in constitution
remains to be seen. The variety is still on probation in New York with
the chances growing stronger each year that it will take high place
among commercial peaches. We do not expect it to drive Elberta from
the markets but the markets will be shared between the two, J. H. Hale
reaching the fruit-stands several days in advance of Elberta. Would
that there were as good a commercial variety to follow Elberta.

This remarkable variety is a chance seedling found by J. H. Hale, South
Glastonbury, Connecticut. From its characters, one sees at once that it
is either an offspring or is very closely related to Elberta--at first
many thought the two were identical. After having thoroughly tested the
new variety in commercial orchards in both Connecticut and Georgia, Mr.
Hale decided that it was worth introducing and sold the new peach to
the William P. Stark Nurseries, Stark City, Missouri. The distribution
of the variety was begun in 1912 and possibly no other tree-fruit has
ever been so rapidly propagated and so widely distributed as has the J.
H. Hale in the past four years.

[Illustration: J. H. HALE]

    Tree vigorous, upright-spreading, open-topped, productive;
    trunk of medium thickness, smooth; branches smooth, ash-gray
    overspread with dark reddish-brown; branchlets medium in
    thickness and length, with long internodes, olive-green
    overspread with red, smooth, glabrous.

    Leaves six and three-fourths inches long, one and three-fourths
    inches wide, folded upward, recurving at the tip, lanceolate,
    thin, leathery; upper surface dark green, smooth becoming
    rugose along the midrib; lower surface olive-green, with
    prominent midrib; margin singly or doubly serrate; petiole
    five-sixteenths inch long, thick, with one to five reniform,
    dark brown glands of medium size; flowers appear in mid-season.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; three inches long, three and
    one-fourth inches wide, regular, round, with equal halves;
    cavity deep, wide, regular; suture a mere line, very shallow or
    with almost no depression; apex roundish, with a small tip set
    in a depression; color lemon-yellow overspread with attractive
    dark red and with mottlings and splashes of carmine; pubescence
    light; skin thick, tough, separates but poorly from the pulp;
    flesh yellow, red around the pit, juicy, fine-grained, sweet
    or somewhat sprightly; good in quality; stone free, one and
    three-fourths inches long, one and one-fourth inches wide,
    oval, plump, flattened at the base, pointed at the apex, with
    grooved and pitted surfaces; ventral suture furrowed, deeply
    grooved along the sides; dorsal suture winged, deeply grooved.


JENNIE WORTHEN

    =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =31=:58. 1887. =2.= Munson _Cat._ 8.
    1890-91. =3.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 183. 1898.

    _Worthen._ =4.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 44. 1895. =5.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:229. 1899.

    _Jennie._ =6.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:812. 1896.

Jennie Worthen is given a place among the major varieties in _The
Peaches of New York_ with the hope that New York growers may be induced
to try it as a high-grade, yellow-fleshed, freestone variety to
precede Elberta. It is enough to say that it is very similar to Early
Crawford--best of all early peaches--and on the Station grounds is more
productive, unproductiveness being the fault that keeps Early Crawford
from being a money-making variety. Whether or not Jennie Worthen can be
grown commercially, it is well worth planting in the home orchard.

But little is known of the history of this variety. According to a
letter from the late T. V. Munson, Denison, Texas, it originated in
Illinois with a Mr. Worthen and was named for his daughter. The Munson
Nursery grew the variety for a few years after its introduction but has
since discontinued its propagation.

[Illustration: JENNIE WORTHEN]

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, hardy, productive; trunk
    thick, smooth; branches thick, nearly smooth, reddish-brown
    mingled with light ash-gray; branchlets of medium thickness,
    tending to rebranch near the tips, with internodes of medium
    length, dark pinkish-red intermingled with green, glossy,
    smooth, glabrous, with numerous conspicuous, small, raised
    lenticels.

    Leaves six and one-half inches long, one and three-eighths
    inches wide, curled both upward and downward, oval to
    obovate-lanceolate, thin, leathery; upper surface dark
    green, rugose near the base of the midrib; lower surface
    grayish-green; margin finely serrate, tipped with
    reddish-brown glands; petiole one-half inch long, glandless or
    with one to six reniform, reddish-brown glands of medium size,
    variable in position.

    Flower-buds hardy, usually obtuse, sometimes conical, plump,
    very pubescent, free; blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers
    pale pinkish, darker pink near the margins, well distributed;
    pedicels short, medium to thick, glabrous, green; calyx-tube
    dull, dark reddish-green, orange-red within, campanulate,
    glabrous; calyx-lobes short, narrow, usually acute, glabrous
    within and without; petals oval, often broadly notched near the
    base, tapering to long, narrow claws occasionally tinged with
    red at the base; filaments three-eighths inch long, equal to
    the petals in length; pistil pubescent at the ovary, equal to
    or longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and seven-eighths inches long,
    two and five-sixteenths inches wide, irregular, roundish-oval,
    bulged at one side, considerably compressed, with unequal
    sides; cavity medium to deep, abrupt, with tender skin; suture
    shallow, deepening toward the tip; apex elongated; color
    greenish-yellow changing to orange-yellow, with stripes and
    splashes and mottlings of deeper red; pubescence thick, long;
    skin thin, tough, separates from the pulp; flesh deep yellow,
    stained with red near the pit, juicy, slightly stringy, tender,
    sweet, very pleasantly flavored, sprightly; good to very good
    in quality; stone free, one and three-eighths inches long,
    one inch wide, ovate, plump, bulged at one side, the surfaces
    grooved; ventral suture narrow, winged, deeply grooved near the
    edges; dorsal suture grooved.


KALAMAZOO

    =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 27, 28, 192. 1893. =2.= _Ibid._
    143. 1894. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 33. 1899. =4.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:217. 1899. =5.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._
    =2=:348. 1903. =6.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:49 fig., 50.
    1910. =7.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 203. 1913.

Before peach-growers had Elberta, Kalamazoo was a promising
yellow-fleshed, freestone variety. The fruit is better in quality than
Elberta but not as showy in appearance and the trees are not quite as
productive. Kalamazoo ripens with Late Crawford and could well compete
with that variety for the trees are hardier in wood and bud and are
much more productive. The variety falls short, however, in the size
of the peaches, these running no larger than a medium Late Crawford,
though possibly this defect could be remedied by thinning. The fruits
are of highest quality either for dessert or culinary purposes. The
trees are susceptible to leaf-curl and must be thoroughly sprayed for
this fungus. The variety is grown rather extensively in Michigan and is
well known in parts of New York.

Kalamazoo originated with J. N. Stearns, Kalamazoo, Michigan, about
1869, as a sprout from below the bud on a Yellow Alberge tree. It first
fruited in 1871 and was exhibited that year at the Michigan State Fair
where it received a premium as the best seedling peach. The American
Pomological Society placed Kalamazoo in its fruit-list in 1899 where it
still remains.

[Illustration: KALAMAZOO]

    Tree large, spreading, vigorous, open-topped, very productive;
    trunk medium in thickness and smoothness; branches stocky,
    nearly smooth, reddish-brown mingled with light ash-gray;
    branchlets long, with internodes of medium length, dark
    pinkish-red with a small amount of olive-green, smooth,
    glabrous, with lenticels of medium number and size.

    Leaves six and one-half inches long, one and three-eighths
    inches wide, nearly flat or curled downward, oval to
    obovate-lanceolate, leathery; upper surface dark olive-green,
    smooth; lower surface grayish-green; apex narrow-acuminate;
    margin finely serrate, tipped with reddish-brown glands;
    petiole three-eighths inch long, with one to six small,
    reniform, reddish-brown glands variable in position.

    Flower-buds hardy, conical, somewhat pointed, pubescent, partly
    appressed; blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers pale pink,
    white at the center of the petals, one and one-eighth inches
    across; pedicels short, medium to slender, glabrous, green;
    calyx-tube reddish-green, orange-colored within, campanulate,
    glabrous; calyx-lobes medium to narrow, acute, glabrous within,
    pubescent without; petals oval to somewhat ovate, irregular in
    outline near the base, tapering to narrow claws occasionally
    reddish at the base; filaments one-half inch long; pistil
    pubescent at the base, equal to or shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit matures late; two and three-eighths inches long, two and
    seven-sixteenths inches wide, roundish-oval, often compressed,
    with unequal sides; cavity rather wide, flaring to abrupt;
    suture indistinct becoming more pronounced toward the tip;
    apex ending in a small, elongated point; color greenish-yellow
    becoming yellow, with a faint or distinct blush usually
    extending over one-fourth of the surface, mottled; pubescence
    thick, fine; skin thin, tough, separates from the pulp; flesh
    light yellow, stained with red near the pit, juicy, tender,
    sweet, mild; good in quality; stone free or nearly so, one
    and one-half inches long, one and one-sixteenths inches wide,
    oval to ovate, bulged on one side, winged near the base, the
    surfaces pitted and grooved near the apex; ventral suture very
    deeply grooved at the sides, medium in width; dorsal suture
    winged, grooved deeply.


LAMONT

    =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =74=:372. 1894. =2.= _N. Y. State Fr.
    Gr. Assoc. Rpt._ 144. 1910. =3.= _Ibid._ 21. 1912. =4.= _Van
    Dusen Nur. Cat._ 21. 1913.

Though long grown in parts of western New York, Lamont has not been
sufficiently well tested by the peach-growers of the State. It is a
yellow-fleshed, freestone peach, much like Early Crawford in appearance
and quality, which ripens from one to two weeks after Elberta. It is
more productive than either of the Crawfords and if it does as well
elsewhere as about Geneva, the place of its origin, it ought to take
high place in the list of commercial peaches for this State. Several
large growers in this region speak well of it as a market fruit. As a
garden variety for its season, it can hardly be surpassed.

The original Lamont tree grew as a chance seedling on the grounds
of Charles Lamont, Geneva, New York, first fruiting about 1884. It
was introduced by E. Smith and Sons, Geneva, New York, soon after its
discovery. The variety is offered by several Geneva nurserymen.

[Illustration: LAMONT]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, productive; trunk
    thick, nearly smooth; branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown
    with light ash-gray; branchlets with internodes of medium
    length, dark pinkish-red intermingled with green, glossy,
    smooth, glabrous, with inconspicuous, raised lenticels.

    Leaves seven inches long, one and five-eighths inches
    wide, folded upward and curled downward slightly, oval to
    obovate-lanceolate, thick, leathery; upper surface dark
    olive-green, smooth; lower surface grayish-green; apex
    acuminate; margin finely and sharply serrate, tipped with
    reddish-brown glands; petiole one-half inch long, with one to
    six reniform, dark brown glands variable in position.

    Flower-buds tender, large, long, conical or pointed,
    pubescent, free; blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers
    thirteen-sixteenths inch across, white at the center of the
    petals becoming dark pink near the edges; pedicels short,
    green; calyx-tube reddish-green at the base, obconic, glabrous;
    calyx-lobes short, medium to broad, obtuse, glabrous within,
    heavily pubescent without; petals roundish-oval, somewhat
    irregular in outline near the base, tapering to long, narrow
    claws occasionally with a red base; filaments three-eighths
    inch long, equal to the petals in length; pistil pubescent near
    the base, as long as the stamens.

    Fruit matures late; about two and seven-eighths inches in
    diameter, roundish-cordate, compressed, with unequal sides;
    cavity deep, usually abrupt; suture indistinct, becoming
    deeper near the tip; apex roundish or pointed, usually with
    a noticeable mamelon or sometimes mucronate tip; color
    golden-yellow, blushed and faintly striped and splashed with
    carmine; pubescence heavy, long, coarse; skin thick, tough,
    adherent to the pulp; flesh light yellow, stained with red near
    the pit, juicy, coarse, tender, pleasantly sprightly; good in
    quality; stone free, one and five-eighths inches long, one and
    one-eighth inches wide, oval to obovate, flattened near the
    base, often bulged at the apex, winged, with grooved surfaces;
    ventral suture deeply marked along the edges, narrow, winged;
    dorsal suture grooved, the sides wing-like.


LARGE YORK

    =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 22. 1897. =2.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._
    26. 1899.

    _New York Rareripe._ =3.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 220. 1817.
    =4.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 277. 1854.

    _Large Early York._ =5.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 16. 1820.
    =6.= _Proc. Nat. Con. Fr. Gr._ 39, 51. 1848. =7.= Cole _Am.
    Fr. Book_ 192. 1849. =8.= _Cultivator_ =6=:308 fig. 1849. =9.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 44. 1856. =10.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 288.
    1859. =11.= _Horticulturist_ =16=:245. 1861. =12.= _Gard. Mon._
    =5=:13. 1863. =13.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 619. 1869. =14.=
    Fulton _Peach Cult._ 185, 186. 1908.

    _Large Early Rareripe._ =15.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:25. 1832.

Large York long ago lost all value for either home or commercial
plantings but it is still listed in a few nursery catalogs and is still
in the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society. It is one of
the old American sorts and has been much confounded with several other
peaches. We place it among the major varieties in _The Peaches of New
York_ chiefly to straighten out the nomenclatorial tangle involving
it and the several varieties with which it is commonly confounded.

Large York has been more often confused with Early York than any other
sort. George IV, Haines and Honest John have also been listed time
and again as identical with Large York. While the sorts mentioned
have many resemblances, there are distinguishing characters for all
of them. Large York, known also as Large Early York and Large Early
Rareripe, originated with William Prince,[261] Flushing, New York, some
time in the Eighteenth Century, probably from a pit of Red Rareripe.
The variety was at first called Early York but to distinguish it from
another Early York the term Large was added. Prince sent the variety
to William Forsyth of England about 1790. Forsyth grew it in the Royal
Kensington Gardens and later renamed it Royal Kensington under which
name it is frequently sold in England. While Large York and Early York
are closely related, the leaves of the latter are glandless while
those of the former have globose glands. At the National Convention
of Fruit-Growers held in 1848, Large York was put on the list of
recommended varieties under the name Large Early York. The peach has
remained on the American Pomological Society's fruit-catalog since the
date given, the name being shortened in 1897 to Large York.

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, open-topped,
    rather unproductive; trunk thick; branches thick, smooth,
    reddish-brown intermingled with light ash-gray; branchlets with
    long internodes, dark red with some green, somewhat russetted,
    glossy, smooth, glabrous, with conspicuous, numerous, large,
    raised lenticels; leaves six and one-half inches long, one
    and one-half inches wide, variable in position, oval to
    obovate-lanceolate, thick, leathery, dark green tinged with
    olive-green; margin finely serrate; petiole three-eighths
    inch long, glandless or with one to six small, globose,
    reddish-brown glands; flower-buds small, short, pointed, not
    very plump, pubescent, appressed; flowers small, appearing in
    mid-season.

    Fruit ripens in mid-season; one and seven-eighths inches long,
    two and one-sixteenth inches wide, round-oblate, bulged at
    one side, compressed, with unequal halves; cavity narrow,
    abrupt, faintly splashed with red; suture shallow, becoming
    deeper toward the apex and extending considerably beyond;
    apex roundish or depressed, with a mucronate tip; color
    greenish-white or creamy-white, blushed and mottled with red;
    pubescence short, thick, fine; skin thin, tender, adheres to
    the pulp; flesh white, rayed with red near the pit, juicy,
    stringy, tender, sweet, mild, pleasant flavored, aromatic; good
    in quality; stone nearly free, one and one-eighth inches long,
    seven-eighths inch wide, oval, plump, short-pointed at the
    apex; ventral suture medium in width; dorsal suture grooved.


LATE CRAWFORD

    =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:231, 232, fig. 114. 1866-73. =2.=
    Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 204. 1913.

    _Crawford's Superb Malacatune._ =3.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 191,
    192. 1841.

    _Crawford's Late Melocoton._ =4.= _Horticulturist_ =1=:12.
    1846-47. =5.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 491. 1845. =6.= Cole _Am.
    Fr. Book_ 197. 1849.

    _Crawford's Late._ =7.= _Proc. Nat. Con. Fr. Gr._ 51. 1848.
    =8.= Hovey _Fr. Am._ =2=:9, 10, Pl. 1851. =9.= Elliott _Fr.
    Book_ 273. 1854. =10.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 43. 1856. =11.=
    Fulton _Peach Cult._ 194. 1908.

Late Crawford is at the head of the Crawford family, long dominant
among the several groups of American peaches and not yet equalled
by any other yellow-fleshed peaches in quality. Late Crawford, a
quarter-century ago, began to give way to Elberta because of the
greater productiveness of the Elberta tree and the showier Elberta
fruits and now, though widely distributed, is nowhere largely planted
and seems destined to pass out of cultivation as a peach of commerce.
Unproductiveness and tardiness in coming in bearing are the faults
on account of which Late Crawford is failing. Itself adapted to a
wide range of soil and climatic condition, Late Crawford, through the
recurring variations from seed, has made the Crawford family the most
cosmopolitan of the several distinct races of American peaches. Of all
the family it is most virile, more than a score of its offspring being
described in _The Peaches of New York_.

Compared with other Crawford-like peaches, Late Crawford is possibly
the best in fruit-characters, the peaches being unsurpassed in
appearance and scarcely equalled in texture of flesh and richness of
flavor. The peaches, too, are more shapely and more uniform in shape
than fruits of other Crawford varieties, being rounder, trimmer in
contour and having a suture that scarcely mars the symmetry of the
peach. In color, Late Crawford runs the whole gamut of soft tints of
red and yellow that make Melocotons and Crawfords the most beautiful of
all peaches. The trees are as vigorous, hardy, healthy and as little
susceptible to disease as any of the varieties near of kin, failing
only, as has been said, in productiveness and in coming in bearing
rather tardily. Evidently destined to pass from commercial cultivation,
Late Crawford ought long to remain one of the treasures of the home
orchard.

Late Crawford was raised by William Crawford, Middletown, New Jersey,
at least a hundred years ago, the exact date of origin, as well as
its parentage, being unknown. The variety was first brought to notice
by William Kenrick, Newton, Massachusetts, who described it in the
_American Orchardist_ under the name Crawford's Superb Malacatune.
No doubt it has a worthy line of ancestors in the old seedling
orchards of the early colonists, the fact that it is the founder of
a race indicating long-continued reproduction from seeds with little
interposition of budding. At the National Convention of Fruit-Growers
held in 1848, Late Crawford was placed in the list of recommended
fruits and since that time has held a place on the fruit-list of the
American Pomological Society. It was first listed as Crawford's Late;
later as Crawford's Late Melocoton and now appears as Late Crawford in
accordance with the Society's rules of nomenclature.

[Illustration: LATE CRAWFORD]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, open-topped, not very
    productive; trunk stocky, smooth; branches thick, smooth,
    reddish-brown mingled with light ash-gray; branchlets long,
    somewhat twiggy, dark reddish-brown overlaid with olive-green,
    smooth, glabrous, with conspicuous, numerous, small, raised
    lenticels.

    Leaves six and seven-eighths inches long, one and three-fourths
    inches wide, folded upward and curled downward, oval to
    obovate-lanceolate, thick, leathery; upper surface dark
    olive-green, smooth becoming rugose along the midrib; lower
    surface grayish-green; margin finely serrate, tipped with
    reddish-brown glands; petiole one-half inch long, with one to
    six small, globose, reddish-brown glands variable in position.

    Flower-buds tender, large, above medium in length, obtuse or
    conical, plump, very pubescent, appressed or free; blossoms
    open in mid-season; flowers one and one-eighth inches across,
    pink, well distributed; pedicels short, medium to slender,
    glabrous, green; calyx-tube reddish-green, orange-colored
    within, obconic, glabrous; calyx-lobes medium to broad,
    obtuse, glabrous within, pubescent without, becoming heavily
    pubescent near the edges; petals oval to ovate, notched at the
    base, tapering to narrow claws which are reddish at the base;
    filaments seven-sixteenths inch long, shorter than the petals;
    pistil pubescent near the base, longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures late; two and three-fourths inches long, two
    and eleven-sixteenths inches wide, roundish-oval, compressed,
    with unequal halves; cavity deep, medium to narrow, abrupt
    or flaring; suture shallow, deepening toward the apex; apex
    roundish, with a slightly pointed and swollen beak-like tip;
    color deep yellow, dully or brightly blushed, with the red
    cheek splashed with darker red; pubescence short, fine; skin
    thick, tough, separates readily from the pulp; flesh yellow,
    strongly stained with red at the pit, juicy, firm but tender,
    sweet but sprightly, richly flavored; very good in quality;
    stone free, one and three-fourths inches long, one and
    one-eighth inches wide, ovate, flattened, bulged on one side,
    blunt-pointed, flattened near the base, with surfaces deeply
    pitted and grooved; ventral suture deeply grooved along the
    edges; dorsal suture a deep, wide groove, winged.


LATE RARERIPE

    =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 22. 1897. =2.= Waugh _Am. Peach
    Orch._ 204. 1913. _Prince Red Rareripe._ =3.= Prince _Pom.
    Man._ =2=:16. 1832. =4.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 278. 1854. _Late
    Red Rareripe._ =5.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 486. 1845. =6.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 78. 1862.

    _Rareripe Rouge Tardive._ =7.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:217, 218,
    fig. 107. 1866-73. =8.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:255 fig., 256.
    1879.

    _Prince._ =9.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:223. 1899.

Late Rareripe is a white-fleshed, late freestone. It is of value now
only because of its historical interest though its high quality makes
it well worth growing in gardens. Its position as a milestone in the
progress of peaches is better marked if we quote A. J. Downing[262]
who wrote in 1845 when Late Rareripe was in its prime and one of
the leading varieties: "Unquestionably one of the very finest of
all peaches. Its large size, great excellence, late maturity,
productiveness, vigor, all unite to recommend it to universal favor. We
cannot praise it too highly."

This old variety is certainly of American origin but the originator,
the time and place of origin are all unknown. It has been cultivated
more than a hundred years. Prince believed it to be a seedling of Red
Rareripe but there is nothing to be found now to verify this belief.
Late Rareripe was sent to France in 1855 where it has since been grown
as a satisfactory commercial sort. The American Pomological Society
listed this variety in its catalog in 1862 under the name Late Red
Rareripe. In 1897, the name was shortened to Late Rareripe as it now
appears.

[Illustration: LATE RARERIPE]

    Tree often very large, vigorous, spreading, open-topped, of
    medium productiveness; trunk stocky, nearly smooth; branches
    thick, smooth, reddish-brown tinged with light ash-gray;
    branchlets long, with internodes of medium length, dark
    pinkish-red intermingled with dull green, glabrous, with
    numerous conspicuous, large lenticels raised at the base.

    Leaves six and one-half inches long, one and one-half
    inches wide, folded upward and curled downward, oval to
    obovate-lanceolate, thick, leathery; upper surface smooth
    becoming rugose at the midrib; lower surface pale green; apex
    acuminate; margin finely and often doubly serrate, tipped
    with reddish-brown glands; petiole three-eighths inch long,
    glandless or with one to four small, globose, reddish-brown
    glands variable in position.

    Flower-buds half-hardy, conical to pointed, plump, pubescent,
    free; blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers one and
    three-sixteenths inches across, white at the center of the
    petals changing to pink toward the margins, well distributed;
    pedicels short, glabrous, green; calyx-tube reddish-green
    at the base, greenish-yellow within, obconic, glabrous;
    calyx-lobes acute, glabrous within, pubescent without; petals
    oval, faintly notched near the base, tapering to narrow claws
    of medium length tinged with red at the base; filaments
    three-eighths inch long, equal to the petals in length; pistil
    pubescent near the base, usually as long as the stamens.

    Fruit matures late; two and five-eighths inches long, two
    and eleven-sixteenths inches wide, roundish-cordate, with
    unequal surfaces; cavity variable in depth and width, abrupt
    or flaring, often with twig-mark across the cavity; suture
    variable in depth, extending beyond the tip; apex roundish,
    mamelon or mucronate, recurved; color greenish or creamy-white,
    sometimes with a lively red blush, mottled and splashed with
    darker and duller red; pubescence thick, coarse; skin tough,
    adherent to the pulp; flesh white, stained with red near the
    pit, juicy, stringy, tender, pleasantly flavored, sweet or
    somewhat sprightly; good to very good in quality; stone free or
    nearly so, one and one-half inches long, one and one-sixteenth
    inches wide, oval to ovate, plump, with deeply grooved
    surfaces; ventral suture deeply grooved along the edges,
    strongly furrowed; dorsal suture deeply grooved.


LEMON FREE

    =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 313. 1889. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 33. 1899. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:218. 1899. =4.=
    Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:349. 1903. =5.= Waugh _Am.
    Peach Orch._ 204. 1913.

    _Lemon._ =6.= _Rural N. Y._ =47=:131. 1888. =7.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 32. 1889. =8.= _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta. Rpt._ =2=:59. 1895.

Lemon Free is a yellow-fleshed, freestone, lemon-shaped, lemon-colored
peach ripening in late mid-season. The fruit is not sufficiently
attractive in appearance to sell well in the markets and, besides, is
too thin-skinned to ship or keep well. The quality is very good, the
flavor being sweet, rich and delicious, though possibly the flesh is a
little too dry to permit the variety being ranked as "very good." It
is an excellent peach for culinary purposes having the reputation of
making a handsomer canned product than any other peach. Lemon Free is
little grown in the eastern states but it is one of the leading sorts
of its season in parts of California. The color-plate shows the shape
very well but the color is not quite that of the real peach.

This variety seems to have originated in Ohio about 1885 but nothing
is known of its parentage, originator or introducer. Wickson, in
_California Fruits_, claims California as its birthplace but this, we
think, is an error. In 1889 the American Pomological Society placed
Lemon Free in its fruit-catalog as Lemon but in 1899 changed the name
to Lemon Free.

    Tree very large, vigorous, upright-spreading, dense-topped,
    hardy, rather unproductive; trunk thick, smooth to medium;
    branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown tinged with light
    ash-gray; branchlets often very long, with a tendency to
    rebranch, with medium to long internodes, pinkish-red with but
    a trace of green, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with large, raised,
    russetty lenticels medium in number.

    Leaves seven inches long, one and three-fourths inches wide,
    folded upward and curled downward, oval to obovate-lanceolate,
    thick, leathery; upper surface dark olive-green, smooth
    becoming rugose along the midrib; lower surface grayish-green;
    margin finely serrate, tipped with reddish-brown glands;
    petiole three-eighths inch long, with two to six rather
    large, reniform, reddish-brown glands variable in position;
    flower-buds intermediate in size and length, conical to
    pointed, slightly pubescent, usually free; flowers appear in
    mid-season.

    Fruit matures in late mid-season; two and one-half inches long,
    two and five-sixteenths inches wide, roundish-oval; cavity
    medium to deep, wide, flaring, often mottled with red; suture
    shallow, becoming deeper at the apex and extending beyond;
    apex mucronate to roundish-mamelon, recurved; color green
    or golden-yellow, with a faint blush and mottled with red;
    pubescence fine, long, thick; skin thin, tender, variable in
    adhesion to the pulp; flesh yellow, juicy, stringy, tender and
    melting, sweet to sprightly, pleasantly flavored; very good in
    quality; stone semi-free to free, one and one-fourth inches
    long, nearly one inch wide, oval, plump, flattened near the
    base, short-pointed, the surfaces usually grooved and with few
    pits; ventral suture winged, deeply marked along the edges,
    narrow; dorsal suture winged, grooved.


LEVY

    =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =23=:82. 1881. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 37.
    1909. =3.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 204. 1913.

    _Henrietta._ =4.= _U. S. Pat. Off. Rpt._ 380. 1858. =5.= _Cult.
    & Count. Gent._ _45_:649. 1880. =6.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:807.
    1896. =7.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 33. 1899. =8.= Waugh _Am. Peach
    Orch._ 203. 1913.

    _Levy Late._ =9.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 92, 93. 1881. =10.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 3rd App. 171. 1881. =11.= Budd-Hansen
    _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:349. 1903.

This variety ripens quite too late for any but the most favorable
peach-sections in New York. It is a round, yellow-fleshed clingstone
of very good quality and might be planted in the parts of New York,
where the season permits it to mature, for a very late culinary peach.
It is one of the favorite peaches to close the season in Southern
fruit-growing sections.

The history of Levy is badly confused. More than half a century ago
a peach called Henrietta was cultivated. Where or when the variety
originated no one can tell. In 1881, Downing mentioned a peach under
the name Levy Late as being a new, late clingstone originating in the
garden of W. W. Levy, Washington, District of Columbia. Downing gave
Henrietta as a synonym of Levy Late, as have several pomologists since.
From these facts, it seems safe to say that the variety is old, that
it was first introduced as Henrietta and that the peach which Mr. Levy
claimed to have originated was Henrietta. The American Pomological
Society, in 1899, added this peach to its fruit-list as Henrietta but
in 1909 changed the name to Levy, giving Henrietta as a synonym.

    Tree large, vigorous, upright to quite spreading, hardy,
    productive; trunk thick, rough; branches stocky, smooth,
    reddish-brown intermingled with very light ash-gray; branchlets
    slender, with internodes dark red or purplish-red mingled
    with light green, smooth, glabrous, with small, numerous,
    conspicuous, raised lenticels.

    Leaves six and one-half inches long, one and one-half inches
    wide, oval to obovate-lanceolate, of medium thickness,
    leathery; upper surface dark green, smooth becoming rugose
    along the midrib; lower surface grayish-green; apex acuminate;
    margin finely serrate, tipped with reddish-brown glands;
    petiole five-sixteenths inch long, with one to six small,
    globose, reddish-brown glands variable in position.

    [Illustration: LEMON FREE]

    Flower-buds hardy, conical to pointed, plump, pubescent,
    free; blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers seven-eighths
    inch across, with varying shades of pink, sometimes in twos;
    pedicels short, medium to thick, glabrous, green; calyx-tube
    reddish-green at the base, orange-colored within, somewhat
    campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes short, medium to narrow,
    acute, glabrous within, pubescent without; petals oval, notched
    near the base, tapering to long, narrow claws often tinged with
    red at the base; filaments five-sixteenths inch long, equal to
    the petals in length; pistil pubescent near the base, as long
    as or longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures very late; about two and one-half inches in
    diameter, roundish-cordate, compressed, with very unequal
    halves; cavity medium to deep, wide, abrupt to slightly
    flaring, with tender skin and often twig-marked; suture deep,
    extending beyond the tip; apex mamelon, recurved, a few
    fruits with very large, mucronate tips; color greenish or
    golden-yellow, with splashes of dull red and a lively blush
    covering one cheek; pubescence short, thick, fine; skin thick,
    adherent to the pulp; flesh yellow, juicy, stringy, meaty, mild
    or somewhat astringent, pleasantly flavored; fair to good in
    quality; stone clinging, one and one-half inches long, one inch
    wide, bulged on one side, ovate to oval, plump, winged, with
    surfaces marked by short, red grooves; ventral suture deeply
    furrowed along the edges, wide; dorsal suture a deep groove.


LOLA

    =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:104. 1901. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._
    37. 1909.

    _Lolo._ =3.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =74=:373. 1894. =4.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 33. 1899. =5.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:349,
    350. 1903.

    _Miss Lola._ =6.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 43, Pl. IV. 1895.
    =7.= _Rural N. Y._ =60=:678. 1901. =8.= _N. Y. Sta. Bul._
    =364=:184. 1913.

    _Miss Lolo._ =9.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:808. 1896.

Lola is a popular peach in parts of the South but is hardly known in
New York. On the Station grounds it is the best of its season and one
of the best of all white-fleshed peaches. Moreover, it fills a gap in
the peach procession that ought to make it valuable in this State.
It follows Mamie Ross and Greensboro, both of which it surpasses in
appearance and quality. It precedes Champion and is even better than
that handsome and delicious peach. Since it ripens with the well-known
Carman, fruit-growers will want to know how it compares with that
variety. It is hardier in bud than Carman, that sort not having a
single fruit after the cold winter of 1911-12 while Lola bore a fair
crop; the fruit is of better quality, larger, hardly as well colored
and on the Station grounds the tree is more productive. Attention of
New York peach-growers was called to Lola, in words almost identical
with those here used, in Bulletin 364 from this Station, published in
1913, with the result that it is now being tried in several parts of
the State and we shall soon know what its commercial value is this far
north.

The parentage of Lola is unknown. The variety originated from seed
planted in 1876 by J. W. Stubenrauch, Mexia, Texas, who named it Miss
Lola in honor of his daughter. The American Pomological Society listed
Lola in its catalog in 1899 as "Lolo." In 1909, however, the spelling
was changed to Lola as it is correctly written.

[Illustration: LOLA]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, open-topped, hardy,
    productive; trunk thick, smooth; branches stocky, smooth,
    reddish-brown with a light tinge of ash-gray; branchlets very
    long, with internodes of medium length, dark pinkish-red
    intermingled with pale green, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with
    conspicuous, numerous, small, raised lenticels.

    Leaves six inches long, one and one-half inches wide, variable
    in position, oval to obovate-lanceolate, thin; upper surface
    dull, dark green; lower surface silvery-green; apex acuminate;
    margin finely serrate to nearly crenate, glandular; petiole
    three-eighths inch long, with one to five reniform glands
    usually on the petiole.

    Flower-buds hardy, obtuse, very plump, heavily pubescent,
    appressed or free; blossoms open early; flowers nearly two
    inches across, light to dark pink, usually in twos; pedicels
    short, slender, glabrous, green; calyx-tube reddish-green
    at the base, greenish-yellow within, somewhat campanulate,
    glabrous; calyx-lobes broad, obtuse, glabrous within, pubescent
    without; petals ovate, deeply indented near the base, faintly
    crenate, tapering to narrow claws; filaments one-half inch
    long, shorter than the petals; pistil, pubescent near the base,
    equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit matures in early mid-season; two and three-eighths
    inches long, two and one-half inches wide, round-oval, usually
    somewhat oblique, compressed, with nearly equal halves; cavity
    deep, wide, abrupt, with tender skin; suture shallow, deepening
    toward the tip; apex small, mucronate, roundish or somewhat
    depressed; color creamy-white blushed with carmine deepened by
    a few dark splashes; pubescence short, thin; skin thin, tough,
    separating from the pulp; flesh white, rayed with red near the
    pit, very juicy, tender and melting, sweet, with a pleasant
    sprightliness; good in quality; stone semi-free to free, one
    and three-eighths inches long, fifteen-sixteenths inch wide,
    obovate, plump, abruptly pointed, with corrugated and pitted
    surfaces; ventral suture wide, winged, deeply furrowed along
    the edges; dorsal suture a deep, narrow groove.


MAMIE ROSS

    =1.= _Can. Hort._ =17=:346. 1894. =2.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._
    =39=:807, 808 fig. =8.= 1896. =3.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:238.
    1898. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 33. 1899. =5.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._
    =13=:104, 105. 1901. =6.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:351.
    1903. =7.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 205. 1913.

Mamie Ross seems to have a very good reputation as a table and market
peach in Texas and other parts of the South but is hardly worth
growing in New York. The fruit has two bad faults: The quality is not
high--the flesh being coarse, juicy and insipid in flavor; and the
peaches bruise with the least possible handling so that they cannot be
shipped to advantage. On the Station grounds the pubescence, too, is
so abundant as to be objectionable. Mamie Ross comes at a season when
there are many other good mid-season, white-fleshed peaches and may,
therefore, be thrown out of the list for this region. It is, as the
color-plate shows, a very handsome peach.

Mamie Ross is probably a seedling of Chinese Cling. It originated about
1881 with Captain A. J. Ross, Dallas, Texas. The variety soon attracted
attention and neighbors began propagating it. Later, Mr. Ross' brother
named the peach after the originator's youngest daughter. In 1899, the
American Pomological Society added the variety to its fruit-list.

[Illustration: MAMIE ROSS]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading to somewhat drooping,
    open-topped, hardy, productive; trunk thick, smooth; branches
    stocky, smooth, reddish-brown with light ash-gray; branchlets
    very long, with long internodes, dark red with considerable
    olive-green, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with numerous
    conspicuous, raised lenticels variable in size.

    Leaves six and three-fourths inches long, one and three-fourths
    inches wide, variable in position, oval to obovate-lanceolate,
    thick, leathery; upper surface dark green, smooth becoming
    rugose along the midrib; lower surface grayish-green; margin
    finely serrate, tipped with reddish-brown glands; petiole
    three-eighths inch long, with none to five small, globose and
    reniform, reddish-brown glands variable in position.

    Flower-buds semi-hardy, obtuse to pointed, plump, heavily
    pubescent, free or appressed; blossoms open early; flowers
    one and three-fourths inches across, pink, single; pedicels
    very short, medium to thick, glabrous, green; calyx-tube
    reddish-green at the base, greenish-yellow within, obconic,
    glabrous; calyx-lobes acute or obtuse, glabrous within, heavily
    pubescent without; petals oval to obovate, entire except near
    the base, tapering to narrow claws often red at the base;
    filaments one-half inch long, shorter than the petals; pistil
    pubescent at the base, equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit matures in early mid-season; two and one-half inches
    long, two and seven-eighths inches wide, roundish-oval to
    oblong, often bulged on one side, compressed, usually with
    sides equal; cavity deep, abrupt, often marked with streaks of
    red; suture variable in depth; apex small, mucronate, set in
    a slight depression; color pale yellowish-cream, with more or
    less dull or bright red in which are splashes of darker red;
    pubescence short, fine, thick; skin thin, tough, separates from
    the pulp; flesh white, streaked with red near the pit, very
    juicy, stringy, tender, melting, sweet or somewhat sprightly,
    pleasantly flavored; good in quality; stone semi-cling or
    cling, one and five-eighths inches long, one inch wide, ovate
    to long-elliptical, plump, long-pointed, bulged on one side,
    with pitted and grooved surfaces; ventral suture deeply grooved
    along the edges, narrow, winged; dorsal suture grooved.


MAY LEE

    =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:105. 1901. =2.= Stark Bros. _Cat._
    fig. 1904. =3.= _Ibid._ 62 fig. 4, 63. 1910.

May Lee is a very early white-fleshed, clingstone, pink-cheeked peach
introduced to rival Alexander, Triumph and other extra early sorts. It
fails, on the Station grounds at least, because the peaches run small,
the flesh clings too tenaciously and the stones crack. Neither is the
fruit attractive in color nor high in quality. It may be as good in
quality as Alexander or Triumph but is no better. The variety is but
doubtfully worth planting in New York.

May Lee originated with E. W. Kirkpatrick, McKinney, Texas, from a seed
of Mamie Ross planted in 1896.

[Illustration: MAY LEE]

    Tree large, spreading, low-growing, very productive; trunk
    thick, smooth; branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown with
    light ash-gray; branchlets slender, often inclined to rebranch,
    medium to long, with internodes dark pinkish-red intermingled
    with olive-green, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with numerous
    conspicuous, raised lenticels medium in size.

    Leaves six and one-half inches long, one and three-fourths
    inches wide, flattened or curled downward, oval to
    obovate-lanceolate, rather thick, leathery; upper surface dark
    green, smooth becoming rugose along the midrib; margin crenate,
    tipped with small, reddish glands; petiole three-eighths inch
    long, glandless or with one to five large, reniform glands
    variable in color and position.

    Flower-buds hardy, small, short, conical, plump, very
    pubescent, appressed or free; blossoms open in mid-season;
    flowers nearly two inches across, light pink; pedicels very
    short, of medium thickness, glabrous; calyx-tube greenish-red,
    campanulate; calyx-lobes obtuse, glabrous within, pubescent
    without; petals round or broadly ovate, notched near the base,
    tapering to claws red at the base; filaments one-half inch
    long, shorter than the petals; pistil pubescent at the ovary,
    longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures early; about two and three-fourths inches in
    diameter, round, compressed, bulged along one size, with
    unequal halves; cavity deep, narrow, abrupt; suture variable
    in depth, extending beyond the tip; apex small, mucronate,
    depressed; color creamy-white, usually with a blush toward the
    apex; tomentose; skin thick, tough, semi-free to free; flesh
    white, very juicy, tender and melting, sweet, mild, pleasantly
    flavored; good in quality; stone semi-clinging to clinging,
    one and nine-sixteenths inches long, one and one-eighth inches
    wide, oval, conspicuously winged, flattened near the base, with
    deeply grooved surfaces; ventral suture thin, winged, very
    deeply grooved along the edges; dorsal suture grooved.


MORRIS WHITE

    =1.= _Proc. Nat. Con. Fr. Gr._ 39, 51. 1848. =2.= Elliott _Fr.
    Book_ 276. 1854. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 22. 1897. =4.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:220. 1899. =5.= Fulton _Peach Cult._
    190, 191. 1908.

    _White Rareripe._ =6.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 222. 1817. =7.=
    Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:26. 1832.

    _Morris White Freestone._ =8.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =6=:410.
    1826. =9.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 189. 1846.

    _Morris White Rareripe._ =10.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 481.
    1845.

    _Blanche de Morris._ =11.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:171, 172, fig.
    84. 1866-73.

    _Morris Blanche._ =12.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:171 fig., 172.
    1879.

Morris White is one of the ancients of American peach-orchards worth
noticing now only because of its worthy past. It is distinguished among
peach varieties by its white flesh--white clear to the pit with no
trace of red even on the surface or next to the stone. It is further
distinguished by its sweet, rich flavor--giving it high rank among the
best of peaches--and by the great productiveness of the trees. Though
undoubtedly the day of Morris White is passed for either commercial or
home orchards, it might still be used advantageously in breeding late,
white-fleshed, freestone peaches.

William Robert Prince,[263] in his _Pomological Manual_, describes
a White Rareripe which he claims originated in the nursery of his
grandfather and which can be no other than the Morris White under
discussion. The origin of the variety will always be in doubt but
probably the elder Prince originated it in the latter part of the
Eighteenth Century. Leroy has confused the history of Morris White
with that of Red Rareripe, commonly called Morris Red Rareripe, which
probably originated with Robert Morris, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Leroy questions the identity of the White Rareripe mentioned by Coxe
but, although the season of Coxe's sort is a trifle earlier than
Leroy's, the two are probably the same. There was a White Rareripe
grown for a short time in America many years ago which proved to be
the old French Nivette renamed. Nivette was not widely disseminated
and probably has long since passed from cultivation in America. Morris
White was reported upon at the National Convention of Fruit-Growers
in 1848 and received a place in the list of recommended fruits.
It continued to be listed in the American Pomological Society's
fruit-catalog until 1891 when it was dropped but was replaced in 1897
and still remains there.

[Illustration: MORRIS WHITE]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading to drooping,
    dense-topped, productive; trunk intermediate in thickness and
    smoothness; branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown with very
    light tinge of ash-gray; branchlets long, with long internodes,
    dark red mingled with green, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with
    many conspicuous, small, raised lenticels at the base.

    Leaves six and three-fourths inches long, one and
    three-fourths inches wide, flat or curled downward, oval to
    obovate-lanceolate, leathery; upper surface dull, dark green,
    smooth; lower surface grayish-green; apex long, acuminate;
    margin finely serrate, tipped with reddish-brown glands;
    petiole three-eighths inch long, with one to five small,
    globose and reniform glands variable in color and position.

    Flower-buds tender, obtuse to conical, plump, very pubescent,
    usually free; blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers less
    than an inch across, pale pink, deepening in color along the
    edges; pedicels short, thick, glabrous, green; calyx-tube
    greenish-red, greenish-yellow within, campanulate, glabrous;
    calyx-lobes narrow, glabrous within, pubescent without; petals
    oval, narrow; filaments three-eighths inch long, equal to the
    petals in length; pistil longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures late; two and one-sixteenth inches long, two and
    one-eighth inches wide, cordate-oval or oblate, compressed,
    with halves nearly equal; cavity abrupt or flaring; suture a
    line, becoming deeper toward the tip; apex roundish, depressed
    in the suture, with mucronate tip; color pale white, usually
    without blush or with a faint bronze blush; pubescence heavy,
    long and coarse; skin thin, tough, somewhat adherent; flesh
    white, juicy, tender and melting, sweet, pleasantly flavored;
    good in quality; stone semi-free to nearly free, one and
    one-fourth inches long, seven-eighths inch wide, oval to
    slightly obovate, flattened near the base, with deeply grooved
    surfaces; ventral suture with deep grooves along the edges,
    furrowed; dorsal suture grooved.


MOUNTAIN ROSE

    =1.= Tilton _Jour. Hort._ =7=:339 fig. 1870. =2.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 18. 1871. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 1st App. 121.
    1872. =4.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 33, 261. 1874. =5.= _N. J.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 41. 1878. =6.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:239. 1898.
    =7.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:220. 1899. =8.= Budd-Hansen _Am.
    Hort. Man._ =2=:352. 1903. =9.= Fulton _Peach Cult._ 174. 1908.

For many years Mountain Rose was preeminent among white-fleshed,
freestone peaches by virtue of high quality and handsome appearance.
It has a distinct and curious but delicious flavor--a sort of scented
sweetness that appeals to all who appreciate choicely good fruit.
Unfortunately, it fails in the chief requirement for popularity in
these days of commercial fruit-growing--the trees are unproductive, a
fault so marked that the variety is rapidly passing from cultivation.
Mountain Rose sells well in all markets where it is known, usually
bringing a fancy price because of its extra good quality and because it
follows closely after the dozen or more white-fleshed, clingstones of
poorer quality.

The variety originated about 1851 on the farm of a Dr. Marvin,
Morristown, New Jersey. Of its parentage nothing is known. Mountain
Rose has always been considered a good market variety and has been
widely disseminated. The American Pomological Society added this peach
to its fruit-list in 1871, a place it has since held.

[Illustration: MOUNTAIN ROSE]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, low-growing and
    dense-topped, rather unproductive; trunk thick, medium in
    smoothness; branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown covered with
    light ash-gray; branchlets thick, long, with internodes of
    medium length, dark red intermingled with olive-green, glossy,
    smooth, glabrous, with numerous conspicuous, large and small
    lenticels raised near the base.

    Leaves six and three-fourths inches long, one and five-eighths
    inches wide, flattened or curled downward, oval to
    obovate-lanceolate, thick, leathery; upper surface dull, dark
    green; lower surface grayish-green; apex long-acuminate; margin
    finely serrate, tipped with reddish-brown glands; petiole
    seven-sixteenths inch long, with two to four small, globose,
    reddish-brown glands variable in position; flower-buds conical
    to pointed, plump, very pubescent, usually appressed; blossoms
    appear in mid-season; flowers small.

    Fruit matures in early mid-season; two and one-eighth inches
    long, two and one-fourth inches wide, roundish-oblate to
    slightly cordate; cavity intermediate in depth and width,
    flaring to abrupt, often twig-marked; suture shallow, becoming
    deeper toward the tip; apex roundish, depressed in the suture,
    with mucronate or sometimes mamelon tip; color creamy-white
    blushed with deep red, with a few splashes of darker red;
    pubescence long, thick; skin thin, tough, variable in adhesion;
    flesh white, stained red near the pit, juicy, tender and
    melting, sweet, mild, pleasantly flavored; good to very good
    in quality; stone free, one and one-fourth inches long,
    seven-eighths inch wide, oval to ovate, plump, bulged on one
    side, contracted toward the base, tapering to a short point,
    usually with small pits in the surfaces; ventral suture deeply
    grooved along the sides, furrowed; dorsal suture grooved,
    faintly winged.


Muir

    =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 314. 1889. =2.= Wickson _Cal.
    Fruits_ 312, fig. 1889. =3.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:239. 1898.
    =4.=_ Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 34. 1899. =5.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._
    =169=:221. 1899. =6.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:352.
    1903.

As a rule, peaches originating in California find small favor in New
York. California peaches are selected for canning, evaporating and
shipping, whereas New York varieties are dessert fruits. Muir is a
California sort suitable only for culinary purposes--attractive enough
inside but so unattractive externally that it could tempt no one who
did not know the fruit to be sweet and delicious in flavor. It is a
late mid-season, yellow-fleshed, freestone peach much used by canners
on the Pacific slope. It ought to be more generally grown for the same
purpose in the East; for, as a canned product, it is hardly surpassed
in appearance or quality. The trees are vigorous, productive and little
subject to leaf-curl but the fruits in New York are often marred by
peach-scab. The variety seems perfectly at home in this State as,
seemingly, it is in most peach-regions. In fruit-characters, Muir is
very similar to Wager.

The variety was found more than twenty-five years ago on the farm
of John Muir, near Silveyville, California. G. W. Thissell, Winters,
California, named and introduced Muir. The American Pomological Society
added this peach to its fruit-list in 1899.

[Illustration: MUIR]

    Tree vigorous, upright or somewhat spreading, hardy,
    productive; trunk rough; branches smooth, ash-gray over
    reddish-brown; branchlets slender, long, with short internodes,
    dark pinkish-red with but a trace of green, smooth, glabrous,
    with inconspicuous, small, raised lenticels.

    Leaves fall early in the season, six and three-fourths inches
    long, one and three-eighths inches wide, flat or somewhat
    curled downward, oval-lanceolate, leathery; upper surface dull,
    dark green, nearly smooth; lower surface olive-green; apex
    acuminate; margin bluntly serrate, tipped with reddish-brown
    glands; petiole seven-sixteenths inch long, with one to five
    large, reniform glands variable in position.

    Flower-buds small, short, obtuse, very plump, heavily
    pubescent, appressed; blossoms open late; flowers seven-eighths
    inch across; pale pink, darker about the edges, usually
    singly; pedicels short, green; calyx-tube reddish-green,
    orange-red within, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes short,
    obtuse, glabrous within, pubescent without; petals narrow-oval
    or ovate, tapering to claws of medium width; filaments
    three-eighths inch long, equal to the petals in length; pistil
    as long as the stamens.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and three-fourths inches
    long, two and three-eighths inches wide, roundish-cordate
    or oval, slightly angular, compressed, with unequal halves;
    cavity shallow, contracted about the sides, abrupt or flaring;
    suture medium in depth; apex pointed, with a large, recurved,
    mamelon tip; color greenish or lemon-yellow, with little if
    any blush; pubescence heavy, long; skin thin, tough, separates
    from the pulp when fully ripe; flesh yellow, faintly tinged
    with red near the pit, dry, coarse, tender, sweet, mild; good
    in quality; stone free, one and seven-sixteenths inches long,
    fifteen-sixteenths inch wide, ovate, flattened, wedge-shape
    toward the base, tapering to a long apex, with large pits and
    a few small grooves in the surfaces; ventral suture deeply
    grooved along the sides, very wide, deeply furrowed; dorsal
    suture widely and deeply grooved.


NIAGARA

    =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 115. 1900. =2.= Budd-Hansen
    _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:352, 353. 1903. =3.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc.
    Rpt._ 24. 1904. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 38. 1909. =5.= _N. Y.
    Sta. Bul._ =403=:213, 214, Pl. 1915.

    _Newark Seedling_. =6.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:99. 1892.

Niagara is a variant of a peach which all growers lament as being less
and less grown, the Crawford. The Crawford group, though a dominant
type, is, as we have several times pointed out, a little too capricious
as to soil and climate to suit the needs of commercial peach-growers,
failing to bear regularly or abundantly in most soils. For this reason
the once very popular Early and Late Crawfords are now seldom grown.
All who know these varieties regret that a sort of their type, without
their faults, has not yet come to light. In New York the best of
the comparatively new Crawford-like peaches is Niagara, said to be a
seedling of one of the Crawfords. The fruit ripens later than Early
Crawford, averages larger, is borne more abundantly and holds its
size better to the end of the season. But Niagara's great point of
merit, as compared with Crawford, is that it is more dependable in
all tree-characters, being, especially, less capricious as to soil
and climate. Niagara, as the color-plate shows it, is a beautiful
fruit, yellow, with a handsome over-color of red. The flesh, too,
is attractive and delectable--yellow, thick and firm, with a rich,
sweet flavor which makes it one of the most palatable peaches of its
season. It is, as are most of its type, a freestone. Niagara fails in
productiveness in some localities, having in this respect the fault
of all its tribe; but it should have a welcome place in any home
collection and, where it proves productive, is one of the best for
general market.

Niagara probably came originally from Maryland to Julius Harris,
Ridgeway, New York. Later it was sold to a grower near Lockport, New
York, who disposed of it to a Mr. Corwin, Newfane, Niagara County, New
York, who called it Corwin's Crawford. It then came into possession
of the Rogers Nurseries, Dansville, New York, from whom this Station
received its trees under the name Niagara. It is probably a seedling
of Early Crawford. Niagara was added to the fruit-list of the American
Pomological Society in 1909.

[Illustration: NIAGARA]

    Tree large, upright-spreading, hardy, medium in productiveness;
    trunk thick and smooth; branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown
    mingled with light ash-gray; branchlets thick, red intermingled
    with olive-green, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with conspicuous,
    large, raised lenticels.

    Leaves six and three-fourths inches long, one and three-fourths
    inches wide, flattened or curled downward, oval to
    obovate-lanceolate, leathery; upper surface dull, dark green,
    rugose along the midrib; lower surface grayish-green; apex
    acuminate; margin finely serrate, tipped with reddish-brown
    glands; petiole three-eighths inch long, glandless or with one
    to five small, globose, raised, reddish-brown glands variable
    in position.

    Flower-buds large, long, conical or pointed, very plump,
    pubescent, usually free; blossoms open in mid-season; flowers
    one inch across, white near the center of the petals changing
    to dark pink near the edges; pedicels very short, thick,
    glabrous, green; calyx-tube reddish-green, orange-colored
    within, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes narrow, acute,
    glabrous within, pubescent without; petals round-oval, tapering
    toward the apex, broadly notched near the base, contracting to
    claws red at the base; filaments three-eighths inch long, equal
    to or shorter than the petals; pistil pubescent at the ovary,
    longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and one-half inches long,
    two and three-eighths inches wide, round-cordate to oval,
    compressed, with equal halves; cavity medium to deep, flaring
    to abrupt, with very tender skin, often splashed with red;
    suture shallow, deepening toward the apex and often extending
    beyond; apex rounded or pointed, with a mamelon and sometimes
    recurved tip; color orange-yellow, blushed with deep, dull red,
    with stripes and splashes of darker red; pubescence short,
    thick, fine; skin thick, tough, adherent to the pulp; flesh
    yellow, deeply tinged with red near the pit, juicy, coarse
    but tender, sprightly; very good in quality; stone free, one
    and five-eighths inches long, one and one-eighth inches wide,
    broadly ovate, plump, with long point at the apex, usually with
    grooved surfaces and with few pits, tinged with red; ventral
    suture very deeply grooved along the sides, winged, rather
    wide; dorsal suture deeply grooved, wing-like.


OLDMIXON CLING

    =1.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 218. 1817. =2.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._
    231. 1832. =3.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:23. 1832. =4.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 497. 1845. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 211. 1856.
    =6.= Fulton _Peach Cult._ 198. 1908. =7.= Waugh _Am. Peach
    Orch._ 205. 1913.

    _Oldmixon_. =8.= Hoffy _Orch. Com._ =1=:1841-42. =9.= Elliott
    _Fr. Book_ 278. 1854.

Without question one of the oldest American peaches, going back at
least 150 years, Oldmixon Cling is still well worthy a place in
every orchard where high quality is a prime requisite. It is a rich,
luscious, white-fleshed peach, ripening late, which, besides being
excellent in quality for dessert and culinary purposes, is uncommonly
handsome--a combination of characters possessed by few other peaches.
The color-plate is almost a perfect picture of the variety and could
the flavor be as well conveyed to readers, Oldmixon Cling might again
take on some of its one time popularity. We can discover but one fault
in the fruits as they grow on the Station grounds--the pits crack
badly. The variety, however, seems to be passing out because the trees
are not, as a rule, fruitful though in all other respects they are
seemingly near perfection.

There is no trace of when, where or how Oldmixon Cling originated.
Coxe[264] first set forth its merits in 1817. It is reported to have
been introduced from Europe by Sir John Oldmixon but Downing
believes that it was the pit and not the tree which Oldmixon brought
to America. At any rate the variety takes its name from its supposed
introducer. If the pit were planted by Sir John Oldmixon, this must be
the oldest of our peaches for Oldmixon came to America nearly 200 years
ago. He was, by the way, the author of one of the early and notable
books on America, _The British Empire in America_, published in London
in 1741. Pomologists from time to time have made two words of the name
making it appear that old and new Mixon peaches existed. Oldmixon Cling
was placed in the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society in
1856 and ever since has retained a place there. In 1881 the Society
changed the name from Old Mixon Cling to Oldmixon Cling.

[Illustration: OLDMIXON CLING]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, hardy, rather
    unproductive; trunk medium to thick, smooth; branches stocky,
    smooth, reddish-brown tinged with light ash-gray; branchlets
    of medium thickness and length, with tendency to rebranch, red
    intermingled with dull green, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with
    numerous conspicuous, large, raised lenticels.

    Leaves six and three-fourths inches long, one and one-half
    inches wide, flattened or curled downward, oval to
    obovate-lanceolate, leathery; upper surface dark green, smooth
    becoming rugose along the midrib; margin finely serrate, tipped
    with reddish-brown glands; petiole three-eighths inch long,
    with one to four small, globose glands variable in color and
    position.

    Flower-buds large, conical or pointed, plump, pubescent,
    appressed or somewhat free; blossoms appear in mid-season;
    flowers three-fourths inch across, light pink at the center
    deepening to darker pink at the margins, often in twos,
    sometimes in threes; pedicels short, green; calyx-tube
    reddish-green at the base, greenish-yellow within, obconic,
    glabrous; calyx-lobes short, narrow, acute, glabrous within,
    pubescent without; petals round-oval, nearly entire, tapering
    to claws tinged with red at the base; filaments three-eighths
    inch long, equal to or longer than the petals; pistil pubescent
    near the base, usually equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit matures late; about two and one-half inches in diameter,
    round or roundish-oval, bulged along one side, compressed, with
    unequal halves; cavity medium to deep, wide, variable in shape;
    suture shallow, becoming deeper toward the apex and extending
    beyond; apex round, with a recurved, mucronate or prominent
    and prolonged mamelon tip; color creamy-white, with a blush of
    lively red and faint splashes of darker red; pubescence fine,
    short, thick; skin thin, tough, separates from the pulp; flesh
    white, faintly stained with red near the pit, juicy, stringy,
    tender, melting, sweet but sprightly, pleasantly flavored;
    very good in quality; stone clinging, one and seven-sixteenths
    inches long, one and one-eighth inches wide, ovate to
    oval, bulged on one side, flattened near the base, plump,
    long-pointed, with grooved surfaces; ventral suture deeply
    grooved along the edges, furrowed; dorsal suture grooved, with
    tendency to wing.


OLDMIXON FREE

    =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 221. 1832. =2.= Prince _Pom. Man._
    =2=:23. 1832. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 484. 1845. =4.=
    _Proc. Nat. Con. Fr. Gr._ 51. 1848. =5.= Elliott _Fr. Book_
    278. 1854. =6.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 45, 183, 211. 1856. =7.=
    Fulton _Peach Cult._ 187, 188. 1908. =8.= Waugh _Am. Peach
    Orch._ 205. 1913.

    _Oldmixon Clearstone._ =9.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 222. 1817.

Oldmixon Free is a variant of Oldmixon Cling, differing, essentially,
as the name implies, in having a free stone; it is, also, more
sprightly in flavor and not quite as well endowed with the characters
that constitute high quality. Side by side, outwardly, the two peaches
can hardly be told apart. Since Oldmixon Cling is sometimes semi-free
and Oldmixon Free often clings more or less, the two are often confused
in orchards and markets. Both of these Oldmixons, as those who live
in regions where cold and frost do frequent damage should know, are
as hardy in wood and bud as any of the white-fleshed varieties. The
blossoms of both, too, appear in late mid-season, thereby often
escaping frosts. The trees of Oldmixon Free, like those of Oldmixon
Cling, have the fault of being unproductive.

Oldmixon Free is supposed to be an American seedling of Oldmixon Cling,
a fruit for the introduction of which we are indebted to Sir John
Oldmixon of early colonial fame. At the Convention of Fruit-Growers
held in 1848, Oldmixon Free was placed on the list of recommended
peaches. In 1856 it appeared in the fruit-list of the American
Pomological Society where it still remains.

[Illustration: OLDMIXON FREE]

    Tree very large, vigorous, upright to spreading, hardy, rather
    unproductive; trunk thick, smooth; branches stocky, smooth,
    reddish-brown tinged with light ash-gray; branchlets of
    medium thickness and length, with tendency to rebranch, dark,
    deep red intermingled with olive-green, glossy, smooth,
    glabrous, with conspicuous, numerous, raised lenticels.

    Leaves six and seven-eighths inches long, one and three-fourths
    inches wide, curled downward or flattened, oval to
    obovate-lanceolate, leathery, dull, dark green, smooth; lower
    surface grayish-green; apex acuminate; margins finely serrate,
    tipped with reddish-brown glands; petiole three-eighths inch
    long, glandless or with one to four small, globose glands
    variable in color and position.

    Flower-buds half-hardy, conical to pointed, plump, pubescent,
    free; blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers three-fourths inch
    across, pale pink near the center becoming darker pink at the
    outside, often in twos; pedicels very short, glabrous, green;
    calyx-tube reddish-green at the base, greenish-yellow within,
    obconic; calyx-lobes short, obtuse, glabrous within, pubescent
    without; petals oval, faintly notched near the base, tapering
    to narrow, long claws tinged with red at the base; filaments
    three-eighths inch long, equal to the petals in length; pistil
    pubescent near the base, equal to or longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures late; two and one-half inches long, two and
    three-fourths inches wide, round-cordate, usually bulged on
    one side, often compressed, with unequal sides; cavity medium
    to deep, abrupt or flaring, tinged with red; suture shallow,
    becoming deeper toward the apex and extending beyond; apex
    roundish, with a mucronate or recurved, mamelon tip; color
    creamy-white more or less overspread with a lively red blush
    in which are faint splashes and mottlings of darker red;
    pubescence coarse, thick; skin thin, tough, separates from
    the pulp; flesh white, deeply tinted with red near the pit,
    juicy, stringy, tender and melting, sweet, with more or less
    sprightliness; very good in quality; stone free or nearly free,
    one and three-eighths inches long, one and one-eighth inches
    wide, oval to ovate, bulged, flattened near the base, with
    grooved and purplish-brown surfaces; ventral suture deeply
    grooved near the edges, furrowed, faintly winged; dorsal suture
    grooved.


OPULENT

    =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 209. 1906. =2.= _Fancher Creek Nur.
    Cat._ 31. 1907. =3.= _Burbank Cat._ 5. 1911.

Opulent is a white-fleshed, freestone peach of very mediocre character
as it grows on the Station grounds. The fruits are attractive in
appearance but not uncommonly so and are often marred, as they grow
in New York, by peach-scab. The quality is scarcely better than the
average and is ruined for most peach-lovers by a bitter tang, though to
others this almond-like bitterness in the flavor may be a commendation.
The variety ripens in mid-season. The trees are scarcely more
satisfactory on the Station grounds than the fruits, being unproductive
and none too vigorous. The chief claim this peach has to public notice
is that it is a cross between a peach and a nectarine. Though as
yet not thoroughly tried in New York, it is safe to say that it is
worthless for this region.

Opulent was sent out several years ago by Luther Burbank, Santa Rosa,
California, as a hybrid between the Muir peach and New White Nectarine.

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading with a tendency to
    droop, medium in productiveness; trunk smooth; branches
    stocky, smooth, reddish-brown with a light ash-gray tinge;
    branchlets slender, long, with medium to long internodes, dull
    red intermingled with green, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with
    conspicuous, large, raised lenticels few in number.

    Leaves six and one-half inches long, one and one-half inches
    wide, flattened or curled downward, oval to obovate-lanceolate,
    leathery, dark green, smooth becoming rugose along the midrib;
    lower surface grayish-green; margin finely serrate, tipped with
    reddish-brown glands; petiole one-half inch long, with one to
    six small, globose and reniform, reddish-brown glands variable
    in position.

    Flower-buds tender, large, long, conical or obtuse, pubescent,
    plump, free; blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers one and
    one-eighth inches across, white at the center of the petals
    becoming dark pink near the margins; pedicels short, glabrous,
    green; calyx-tube reddish-green, orange-colored within,
    campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes short, narrow, acute,
    glabrous within, pubescent without; petals oval or roundish,
    broadly notched, tapering to long, narrow claws red at the
    base; filaments five-sixteenths inch long, equal to the petals
    in length; pistil pubescent at the ovary, longer than the
    stamens.

    Fruit matures in early mid-season; two and one-half inches
    long, two and seven-sixteenths inches wide, round-oval,
    compressed, with unequal halves; cavity deep, abrupt, often
    marked with red; suture a mere line or very shallow, often a
    slight depression just beyond the point; apex roundish, with a
    mucronate and recurved tip; color creamy-white, with a faint
    blush, speckled and striped with darker red; pubescence short;
    skin tough, separates from the pulp; flesh white, juicy,
    stringy, tender, melting, sweet but sprightly; fair in quality;
    stone free, one and five-sixteenths inches long, seven-eighths
    inch wide, ovate to slightly oval, flattened at the base,
    plump, short-pointed, with pitted surfaces marked by few
    grooves; ventral suture deeply furrowed along the edges, medium
    in width, furrowed; dorsal suture deeply grooved.


PALLAS

    =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 55. 1885. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._
    46. 1891. =3.= _La. Sta. Bul._ =17=:499. 1891. =4.= _Tex. Sta.
    Bul._ =39=:805. 1896. =5.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:239, 240. 1898.
    =6.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:222. 1899. =7.= Budd-Hansen _Am.
    Hort. Man._ =2=:353. 1903. =8.= _Fla. Sta. Bul._ =73=:150.
    1904. =9.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._ =156=:134. 1911.

    _Pallas Honeydew._ =10.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =170=:178. 1906.

Pallas is about the best of the several honey-flavored, beaked peaches
that have fruited on the Station grounds. This is one of the sorts
supposed to thrive only in warm climates but here, in a location none
too favorably situated as to climate, the trees are vigorous, appear to
be hardy and differ from northern varieties, so far as life events are
concerned, only in holding their leaves longer. The fruits run small
and lack uniformity in size, faults that will not permit Pallas ever
to become a commercial sort in New York. Moreover, the peaches are not
attractive in appearance, suffer terribly from brown-rot and do not
ship well--further disqualifications for competition in commerce. In
quality, especially, to those who have a taste for sweets, Pallas is
almost unapproachable--so rich, sweet, aromatic and delicious as well
to justify the sobriquet, "Honeydew," frequently bestowed upon it. This
variety might well be planted in every home orchard.

Pallas is one of the many seedlings of Honey and originated in
1878 with L. E. Berckmans, Augusta, Georgia. In 1891 the American
Pomological Society added Pallas to its list of fruits as a noteworthy
variety for southern fruit-districts.

[Illustration: PALLAS]

    Tree medium in vigor, upright-spreading, round-topped,
    productive; trunk rough; branches roughened by the lenticels,
    brownish intermingled with ash-gray and a little red;
    branchlets slender, with internodes of medium length, dark
    pinkish-red mingled with green, smooth, glabrous, with numerous
    conspicuous, small, raised, russet-colored lenticels.

    Leaves fall late in the season, six inches long, one and
    one-half inches wide, variable in position, ovate-lanceolate,
    thin, leathery; upper surface dull, dark green, smooth; lower
    surface olive-green; margin sharply and often doubly serrate,
    glandular; petiole three-eighths inch long, stout, glandless or
    with one to three small, globose glands usually at the base of
    the leaf.

    Flower-buds large, long, conical, plump, pubescent,
    conspicuous, usually free; flowers appear in mid-season, light
    pink changing to darker red; pedicels thick, glabrous, green;
    calyx-tube red, yellowish-green within, obconic, glabrous;
    calyx-lobes obtuse, glabrous within, heavily pubescent without;
    petals oval, entire, red at the base; filaments shorter than
    the petals; pistil pubescent, longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures in early mid-season; two and one-fourth inches
    long, two inches wide, pointed-oval, compressed, with halves
    equal; cavity shallow, flaring, with tender skin; suture
    shallow; apex a characteristically long, straight tip; color
    pale white or greenish-white occasionally with a bright red
    blush but mostly with dull mottlings; pubescence medium in
    amount; skin thick, tough; flesh white, scarcely stained at
    the pit, very juicy, sweet, tender and melting, high-flavored;
    very good in quality; stone free, one and five-sixteenths
    inches long, seven-eighths inch wide, oval to ovate, slightly
    wedge-shaped at the base, plump, conspicuously winged,
    long-pointed, with pitted and grooved surfaces; ventral suture
    narrow, furrowed; dorsal suture grooved.


PEARSON

    =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:105. 1901. =2.= _N. Y. State Fr. Gr.
    Assoc. Rpt._ 21. 1912.

Pearson is a newcomer among peaches which will bear watching if it does
as well in other parts of New York as on the Station grounds. It is
a large, handsomely-colored, white-fleshed, freestone peach of good
quality which ripens ten days before Champion. There are, it is true,
a good many white-fleshed peaches at this season but Pearson is an
exceptionally good one, much excelling Mamie Ross with which it might
have to compete although the latter ripens a little later. The trees
are very vigorous, productive and, so far, about as healthy as any on
the Station grounds.

Pearson originated with J. M. Pearson, McKinney, Texas. Its parentage
is unknown. The variety was introduced by E.W. Kirkpatrick of McKinney,
who thinks it may be a seedling of Chinese Cling.

[Illustration: PEARSON]

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, the lower branches drooping,
    very productive; trunk medium in thickness, smooth; branches
    stocky, smooth, reddish-brown mingled with light ash-gray;
    branchlets slender, short, with short internodes, dark red
    mingled with olive-green, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with few
    inconspicuous lenticels variable in size and raised toward the
    base.

    Leaves seven inches long, one and three-fourths inches wide,
    variable in position, oval to obovate-lanceolate, leathery;
    upper surface dark, dull green, smooth becoming rugose along
    the midrib; lower surface grayish-green; apex long and narrow;
    margin finely serrate, tipped with reddish-brown glands;
    petiole three-eighths inch long, glandless or with one to four
    small, globose, reddish-brown glands usually at the base of the
    blade.

    Flower-buds hardy, long, heavily pubescent, conical to
    obtuse, plump, appressed or partly free; blossoms appear
    very early; flowers nearly two inches across, pink, usually
    single; pedicels short, of medium thickness, glabrous, green;
    calyx-tube dark, dull reddish-green, greenish-yellow within,
    campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes broad, often emarginated,
    acute or obtuse, glabrous within, heavily pubescent without;
    petals oval to roundish-obovate, tapering to long, narrow
    claws; filaments about one-half inch long, shorter than the
    petals; pistil pubescent only at the base, equal to the stamens
    in length.

    Fruit matures in early mid-season; two and one-fourth inches
    long, two and three-sixteenths inches wide, round-oval or
    somewhat cordate, compressed, with unequal halves, bulged near
    the apex; cavity medium to deep, abrupt or flaring, with tender
    skin; suture quite variable in depth; apex round or depressed,
    with a small, mucronate or recurved, mamelon tip; color
    greenish-white, with a blush covering much of the surface,
    more or less mottled; pubescence thin, fine, short; skin
    thin, tough, semi-free; flesh white, faintly tinged with red
    near the pit, juicy, stringy, tender and melting, pleasantly
    flavored; good in quality; stone semi-clinging or free, one and
    three-eighths inches long, one inch wide, oval, flattened at
    the base, winged, with pitted surfaces; ventral suture deeply
    grooved near the edges, narrow; dorsal suture grooved, winged.


PEENTO

    =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 41. 1877. =2.= _Gard. Mon._ =19=:114,
    301. 1877. =3.= _Gard. Mon._ =26=:61. 1884. =4.= _U. S. D.
    A. Rpt._ 650. 1887. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 32. 1889. =6.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 114-116. 1889. =7.= _Fla. Sta. Bul._
    =62=:506-509, Pl. 1. 1902. =8.= Fulton _Peach Cult._ 202. 1908.

    _Chinese Flat._ =9.= Prince _Treat. Hort._ 16, 17. 1828. =10.=
    Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 225, 226. 1832.

    _Flat Peach of China._ =11.= Lindley _Guide Orch._ 247, 248.
    1831. =12.= _Horticulturist_ =1=:383, 384, fig. 92. 1846-47.
    =13.= _Fla. Sta. Bul._ =62=:512, 513. 1902.

    _Platt Pfirsich._ =14.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 410. 1889.

For the history and a discussion of the horticultural characters
of Peento, the reader is referred to page 108. The variety is too
tender to cold to be grown in New York; in fact it succeeds only in
Florida and the warmest parts of the other Gulf States. The American
Pomological Society listed Peento in its fruit-catalog in 1889. The
following description, as it applies to the tree, has been compiled:

[Illustration: PEENTO

[Reproduced from Transactions of the Horticultural Society of London
IV: 512. 1822.]]

    Tree vigorous, open-topped, too tender for the North, variable
    in productiveness; leaves mature late, four and one-half inches
    long, one and seven-sixteenths inches wide, oblong-oval, thin,
    leathery; upper surface light olive-green, smooth; lower
    surface grayish-green; margin coarsely serrate, tipped with
    dark glands; petiole with two or three reniform glands of
    medium size, gray or greenish-yellow, usually at the base.

    Fruit matures early; one and three-eighths inches long, two
    and seven-sixteenths inches wide, strongly oblate; cavity
    shallow, very wide, flaring, twig-marked; suture deep, wide,
    extending two-thirds around the fruit; apex depressed, set in
    a large, wide, flaring basin; color creamy-yellow, mottled
    and delicately pencilled with red, often blushed toward the
    apex; pubescence short, thick; skin thick, tough, nearly
    free; flesh white, stained red at the stone, juicy, stringy,
    tender and melting, sweet, mild, with an almond-like flavor;
    very good in quality; stone clings, red, one-half inch long,
    fifteen-sixteenths inch wide, strongly oblate, with corrugated
    surfaces; ventral suture very deep at the edges, narrow at the
    base, becoming wide at the apex; dorsal suture a wide, deep
    groove, merging into a line at the apex.


PROLIFIC

    =1.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:240. 1898.

    _New Prolific._ =2.= _Col. O. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =32.= 1892. =3.=
    _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 190. 1895. =4.= _Ohio Hort. Soc. Rpt._
    =59.= 1896-97. =5.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:221. 1899. =6.=
    Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:352. 1903. =7.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 38. 1909.

Prolific was heralded a quarter-century ago as one of the great
acquisitions to the peach-flora of the country. Time has not dealt
kindly with the variety and it is doubtful if it is as popular now
as it was a few years after its introduction. The trees are very
satisfactory, excelling most of their orchard-associates in vigor,
size, health, hardiness and productiveness but the peaches fall below
the mark in several characters. The fruits are of but medium size and
not uncommonly attractive in color, though handsome enough, but too
poor in quality to rate high among the peaches of its season which is
a few days before Elberta. The flesh is yellow, firm, dry and little
attacked by rot. With the qualities just named, the variety is, of
course, a good shipper and might be in demand in the markets for
culinary purposes. We doubt whether the peach should be largely planted
in New York.

Further than that Prolific comes from Michigan, nothing is known of
its parentage, the originator or the date of origin. It was introduced
about 1890 by Greening Brothers, Monroe, Michigan, under the name New
Prolific. In 1909 the American Pomological Society added this peach to
its fruit-list as New Prolific.

[Illustration: PROLIFIC]

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, becoming drooping,
    open-topped, very productive; trunk rough; branches stocky,
    smooth, reddish-brown with a very light tinge of ash-gray;
    branchlets deep, dull red intermingled with green, glossy,
    smooth, glabrous, with conspicuous, numerous lenticels raised
    near the base.

    Leaves six and one-half inches long, one and one-half inches
    wide, variable in position, oval to obovate-lanceolate,
    leathery; upper surface dull, dark green, smooth, becoming
    rugose near the midrib; lower surface grayish-green;
    apex long-acuminate; margin finely serrate, tipped with
    reddish-brown glands; petiole three-eighths inch long, with
    from one to five small, globose glands variable in color and
    position.

    Flower-buds hardy, conical to obtuse, plump, somewhat
    pubescent, appressed or free; blossoms open early; flowers
    one and five-sixteenths inches across, white near the center
    becoming pink along the edges; pedicels very short, glabrous,
    green; calyx-tube dull, dark reddish-green, orange-colored
    within, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes narrow, acute,
    glabrous within, heavily pubescent without; petals
    roundish-ovate to oval, broadly notched near the base, tapering
    to narrow claws red at the base; filaments seven-sixteenths
    inch long, equal to the petals in length; pistil pubescent at
    the ovary, as long as the stamens.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and one-fourth inches long,
    two and three-eighths inches wide, round-oval to cordate,
    bulged on one side, compressed, with unequal halves; cavity
    deep, usually abrupt, frequently mottled with red; suture a
    line, becoming deeper toward the tip; apex round or somewhat
    pointed, with a recurved, mamelon tip; color light orange,
    mottled and blushed with red; pubescence thick, fine; skin
    thin, tough, separates from the pulp; flesh light yellow,
    stained with red near the pit, medium juicy, coarse, stringy,
    tender, sweet, mild, pleasantly flavored; good in quality;
    stone free, one and three-eighths inches long, one inch wide,
    ovate, bulged on one side, plump, with long, pointed apex,
    with surfaces grooved and marked by small pits; ventral suture
    deeply grooved along the sides, slightly winged near the base;
    dorsal suture a deep groove, faintly winged.


RAY

    =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:106. 1901. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._
    38. 1909. =3.= _N. J. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 35. 1912. =4.= Harrison
    _Cat._ 27. 1915.

This is another of the many early, white-fleshed, freestone peaches
which are competing for favor among peach-growers. We doubt if
Ray, however, should find a place on the peach-list for New York.
Several faults condemn it; worst of all, the trees are not
productive. Add to unproductiveness, lack of uniformity in size, shape,
color and flavor and the variety is out of the race as a commercial
sort. This far north, too, the trees suffer from winter injury. The
variety is remarkable for its foliage. Were it not for the fact that
Ray is well spoken of in several other states, and the possibility
that it might do better in other parts of New York than on the Station
grounds, we should not place it among the major varieties in _The
Peaches of New York_. It is said to be an excellent shipper.

This peach is occasionally confused with Raymond Cling, which
originated in Mississippi many years ago and which has long since
passed from cultivation. The present variety originated with D. Ray,
Tyler, Texas. Its parentage is unknown. The American Pomological
Society placed Ray on its fruit-list in 1909.

[Illustration: RAY]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, the lower branches
    drooping, medium in productiveness; trunk thick, nearly smooth;
    branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown with a light tinge
    of ash-gray; branchlets slender, dark red intermingled with
    olive-green, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with numerous raised
    lenticels variable in size.

    Leaves six and one-half inches long, one and five-eighths
    inches wide, flattened or curled downward, oval to obovate
    lanceolate, leathery; upper surface dark green, smooth;
    lower surface medium green; margin finely serrate, tipped
    with reddish-brown glands; petiole three-eighths inch long,
    glandless or with one to three small, globose glands variable
    in position.

    Flower-buds half-hardy, short, heavily pubescent, conical
    to pointed, plump, usually appressed; blossoms appear in
    mid-season; flowers one inch across, light pink becoming darker
    pink along the edges; pedicels short; calyx-tube reddish-green,
    greenish-yellow within, obconic; calyx-lobes long, narrow,
    obtuse, glabrous within, heavily pubescent without; petals
    ovate, with claws medium in length and width; filaments
    three-eighths inch long, equal to the petals in length; pistil
    pubescent at the base, longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and three-eighths inches long,
    two and one-half inches wide, roundish-conic to oblong-conic,
    slightly compressed, with nearly equal halves; cavity narrow,
    abrupt, with tender skin; suture shallow, deepening toward and
    often extending beyond the tip; apex round, with a mucronate
    tip; color greenish-white changing to white, scarcely blushed
    or with a bright pinkish-red blush varying from a small amount
    to about one-third of the surface, faintly mottled; pubescence
    coarse, thick, long; skin very thin, tough, separates from the
    pulp; flesh greenish-white, stained with red near the pit,
    juicy, stringy, firm but tender, aromatic, sprightly; good in
    quality; stone semi-free to free, one and seven-sixteenths
    inches long, slightly more than one inch wide, oval to ovate,
    plump, with short point at the apex, with grooved and pitted
    surfaces; ventral suture deeply grooved along the edges,
    narrow, furrowed; dorsal suture grooved.


RED CHEEK MELOCOTON.

    =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:31, 32. 1832. =2.= Downing _Fr.
    Trees Am._ 492. 1845. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 32. 1867.

    _Red Cheek Malacotan._ =4.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 225. 1817.
    =5.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 186. 1846.

    _Early Yellow Malacatune._ =6.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 220. 1832.

    _Yellow_ or _Red Cheek Malacatune_. =7.= _Ibid._ 225. 1832.

    _Hogg's Malacatune._ =8.= _Ibid._ 190. 1841.

    _Red Cheek._ =9.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 288. 1854. =10.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:223, 224. 1899. =11.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort.
    Man._ =2=:354. 1903. =12.= Fulton _Peach Cult._ 195, 196. 1908.
    =13.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 39. 1909.

    _Malacatune._ =14.= Hooper _W. Fr. Book_ 225. 1857.

For nearly a century, beginning soon after the Revolutionary War, Red
Cheek Melocoton had few rivals among yellow-fleshed, freestone peaches.
Even yet it is surpassed in quality only by members of the Crawford
family of which, by the way, it is supposed to be the immediate
ancestor--certainly all Crawford-like peaches resemble it in both fruit
and tree-characters. Lack of vigor and unproductiveness have driven
Red Cheek Melocoton from common cultivation--indeed it is now almost
impossible to obtain the trees. We give the variety attention in _The
Peaches of New York_, not because of present worth, but because of
the prominent part it has played in the peach-industry of the country
in the past. The color-plate is an admirable reproduction of this
old peach though possibly the fruits run a little larger than in the
illustration. The derivation of "Melocoton," so often used in this
text, is given on page 51.

Red Cheek Melocoton is an American seedling which, according to William
Prince, sprang from a bud of a stock on which Lemon Cling had been
grafted, at the Prince farm, Flushing, New York. The Princes were so
impressed with the seedling that they propagated it, giving it the name
Red Cheek Malacatune, the name Malacatune at that time being given to
all yellow peaches having little red. The discovery of the variety in
the Prince orchards dates back considerably over one hundred years.
From Red Cheek Melocoton the Crawfords and several other notable
peaches are said to have come. In 1867 the American Pomological Society
placed this variety in its catalog as Red Cheek Melocoton but in 1909
shortened the name to Red Cheek. We prefer to preserve the old name.

[Illustration: RED CHEEK MELOCOTON]

    Tree medium in size, vigorous, upright-spreading, lacking in
    productiveness; trunk intermediate in thickness and smoothness;
    branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown mingled with light
    ash-gray; branchlets thick, variable in length, with medium
    to long internodes, deep, dark red intermingled with green,
    glossy, roughened by the lenticels, glabrous, with a few
    smallish, inconspicuous lenticels which are raised toward the
    base.

    Leaves seven and one-fourth inches long, nearly two inches
    wide, variable in position, oval to obovate-lanceolate, medium
    in thickness, leathery, dark olive-green, smooth, becoming
    rugose toward the midrib; margin sharply serrate; petiole
    three-eighths inch long, glandless or with one to three small,
    globose, alternate glands variable in color and in their
    position; flower-buds intermediate in size and length, conical
    or pointed, plump, free; blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers
    small.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and one-fourth inches
    long, about two and one-half inches wide, roundish-cordate,
    compressed, with halves nearly equal; cavity wide, deep,
    flaring or abrupt; suture shallow; apex roundish, with a
    mucronate or mamelon tip; color deep golden-yellow, splashed,
    blushed and mottled with red; pubescence heavy; skin thick,
    tough, adherent to the pulp; flesh rayed with red near the pit,
    yellow, juicy, firm but tender, sweet, pleasantly flavored;
    good in quality; stone free, one and one-half inches long, one
    inch wide, ovate, more or less bulged at one side and drawn out
    near the base, plump, rather long-pointed, with short grooves
    and pits in the surfaces; ventral suture winged, medium in
    thickness, deeply grooved and furrowed along the edges; dorsal
    suture a narrow groove, winged.


REEVES

    =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:814. 1896. =2.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._
    =169=:224. 1899. =3.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:354.
    1903. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 39. 1909.

    _Reeves' Favorite._ =5.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 288. 1854. =6.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 633. 1857. =7.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._
    30. 1875. =8.= Fulton _Peach Cult._ 193. 1908.

    _Reeves' Late._ =9.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 458. 1883.

Reeves is another of the old favorites now rapidly passing out of
cultivation. In its day it was justly celebrated for the high quality
of its yellow-fleshed, freestone fruits which are as handsome as they
are palatable. The peaches have but two minor defects to keep them from
perfection--they are a little too irregular in shape and sometimes
fall short in size. In texture of flesh, juiciness, taste and aroma
they are scarcely surpassed. The fault that condemns the variety is
unproductiveness in the trees. Under average conditions, Reeves is
scarcely as productive as the Crawfords which are rated by all as about
the poorest bearers. Making up in some degree for unfruitfulness,
the trees are vigorous and more than usually hardy. It can hardly be
expected that so poor a bearer will prove profitable in commercial
plantations but Reeves is worthy of perpetuation for home orchards.

This attractive peach came from a chance seedling found about sixty
years ago by Samuel Reeves, Salem, New Jersey. The variety has for many
years gone under the name Reeves' Favorite and was so listed in the
fruit-catalog of the American Pomological Society in 1875 but in 1909
the name was shortened by the Society to Reeves.

[Illustration: REEVES]

    Tree medium to large, vigorous, upright-spreading, hardy,
    rather unproductive; branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown
    with light ash-gray; branchlets intermediate in thickness and
    length, with a tendency to rebranch, dark pinkish-red with
    some olive-green, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with moderately
    conspicuous lenticels raised and breaking the bark near the
    base.

    Leaves six and three-fourths inches long, one and three-fourths
    inches wide, variable in position, oval to obovate-lanceolate;
    upper surface dark olive-green, smooth becoming rugose along
    the midrib; lower surface grayish-green; apex acuminate;
    margin finely serrate, with reddish-brown glands; petiole
    three-eighths inch long, glandless or with one to three small,
    globose glands variable in position.

    Flower-buds tender, medium in size and length, pubescent,
    conical or pointed, plump, free; blossoms open late;
    flowers seven-eighths inch across, light and dark pink,
    well distributed; pedicels very short, glabrous, greenish;
    calyx-tube reddish-green at the base, orange-colored within,
    obconic, glabrous; calyx-lobes medium to narrow, acute,
    glabrous within, pubescent without; petals oval to ovate,
    tapering to claws red at the base; filaments three-eighths inch
    long, equal to the petals in length; pistil pubescent near the
    base, as long as the stamens.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and three-eighths inches
    long, two and one-half inches wide, round-cordate, bulged at
    one side, compressed, with unequal halves; cavity often very
    deep, flaring or abrupt, the skin tender and often marked with
    red; suture shallow, sometimes extending beyond both cavity
    and tip; apex pointed or rounded, with a prominent, recurved,
    mamelon tip; color deep yellow, blushed with dull red,
    striped, splashed and mottled with brighter red; pubescence
    thick, long; skin thick, tough, separates from the pulp;
    flesh yellow, tinged with red near the pit, juicy, stringy,
    tender and melting, pleasantly flavored, mild, sweet; very
    good in quality; stone free, one and three-eighths inches
    long, fifteen-sixteenths inch wide, ovate to oval, more or
    less bulged near the apex, sometimes winged along the ventral
    suture, with pitted and grooved surfaces; ventral suture deeply
    furrowed along the sides, narrow, grooved; dorsal suture small,
    grooved.


RIVERS

    =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 34. 1883. =2.= _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta.
    Rpt._ =6=:22 fig. 1899. =3.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:106. 1901.
    =4.= _Can. Hort._ =25=:464. 1902. =5.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort.
    Man._ =2=:354. 1903.

    _Early Rivers._ =6.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =17=:38, 58. 1869.
    =7.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 1st App. 120, 121. 1872. =8.=
    _Gard. Chron._ 1262. 1872. =9.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 28. 1875.
    =10.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 445. 1884. =11.= _Rev. Hort._ 388.
    1890. =12.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 98 fig. 1906.

    _Rivers' Frühe._ =13.= Lauche _Deut. Pom._ =VI=: No. 9, Pl.
    1882.

    _Précoce Rivers._ =14.= Baltet _Cult. Fr._ 239 fig. 138. 1908.

Rivers and one other, Salwey, are the only foreign peaches now commonly
cultivated in America. The peach, of all tree-fruits, best proves
the general rule that American varieties of fruits are best adapted
to American conditions. Perhaps to Rivers may be added three or four
more exotic peaches which are now and then planted in this country
but all are passing out so rapidly that we shall soon be standing on
a basis in peach-growing which is wholly American. Earliness and high
quality of fruit keep Rivers alive in private places in America. No
one would think of planting it in a commercial orchard because of its
small fruit, tender skin and flesh which show every bruise, and its
susceptibility to brown-rot. It is a white-fleshed freestone, tender,
juicy and with an exceedingly rich, sugary flavor with a savoring smack
of the nectarine. This variety stands almost alone in beauty of flesh
which is white to the stone, translucent and more or less mottled and
interspersed with white veins. At its best the fruits are rather large
and quite handsome as they grow in America, but even so they are but a
shadow of the peach described under this name in European fruit-books.
The trees are fairly satisfactory in all essential characters.

Rivers originated with Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, about
1865 as a seedling of Early Silver. Soon after its introduction in
England it was brought to America. The American Pomological Society
listed the variety in its fruit-catalog in 1875 as Early Rivers but in
1883 changed the name to Rivers though it is still popularly known as
Early Rivers.

[Illustration: RIVERS]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, with inclination to
    droop, round-topped, hardy, productive; trunk thick; branches
    stocky, smooth, dark reddish-brown overspread with light
    ash-gray; branchlets long, with internodes olive-green overlaid
    with thin brownish-red, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with numerous
    conspicuous, large and small lenticels.

    Leaves five and three-fourths inches long, one and five-eighths
    inches wide, folded upward and somewhat recurved, oval to
    obovate-lanceolate, thin, leathery, dark green, smooth or
    sometimes rugose; lower surface grayish-green, not pubescent,
    with a prominent midrib; apex acuminate; margin finely serrate,
    tipped with fine, reddish-brown glands; petiole one-fourth inch
    long, with one to six reniform, greenish-yellow glands variable
    in position.

    Flower-buds large, long, conical, heavily pubescent, appressed;
    season of bloom early; flowers pink, one and one-half
    inches across, often in pairs; pedicels short, glabrous,
    green; calyx-tube dull reddish-green, light yellow within,
    campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes short, narrow, acute to
    obtuse, glabrous within, heavily pubescent without; petals
    round-ovate, bluntly notched near the base, tapering to long,
    narrow claws occasionally with a reddish base; filaments
    one-half inch long, shorter than the petals; pistil pubescent
    at the ovary, equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit matures early; two and three-eighths inches long, two and
    one-fourth inches wide, round-oval, compressed, with unequal
    halves; cavity shallow, contracted, irregular, abrupt; suture
    medium to shallow; apex roundish, somewhat mucronate; color
    creamy-white, blushed with red; pubescence short, heavy;
    skin thick but tender, adherent to the pulp; flesh white,
    translucent, veined, juicy, melting, sweet or mildly sprightly;
    good in quality; stone nearly free, one and five-sixteenths
    inches long, one inch wide, oval, plump, bulged on one side,
    light colored, short-pointed at the apex, with grooved
    surfaces; ventral suture very deeply grooved along the sides,
    narrow, winged; dorsal suture grooved, more or less winged.


ROCHESTER

    =414=:6, 7, Pl. 1916. =3.= _N. Y. State Fr. Gr. Assoc. Rpt._
    18. 1916.

Fruit-growers have long desired an early, yellow, freestone peach with
suitable tree-characters for a commercial plantation. There are several
competitors for the place, the latest of which is Rochester, a member
of the Crawford group and in several respects a marked improvement
on the well-known Early Crawford. Rochester, in season, regarding
the crop as a whole, certainly precedes Early Crawford several days,
ripening soon after the middle of August. The introducers say that it
is two weeks earlier, a statement made possible by the fact that its
season is very long, a few specimens ripening extremely early. The
great length of season of this variety under some circumstances may
be an asset, under others a liability. As the color-plate shows, the
peaches are large, yellow, with a handsome over-color of mottled red,
more rotund than either of the two Crawfords or Elberta, making, all
in all, a strikingly beautiful peach. The flesh, too, meets all the
requirements of a good peach--thick and firm, marbled yellow, stained
with red at the pit, juicy, rich, sweet and in all respects fully up
to the high standard of palatability found in peaches of the Crawford
group. While the variety must be classed as a freestone, yet there is
a slight clinging which may disappear under some conditions and may be
augmented under others. Rochester seems to be sufficiently productive
for a good commercial fruit but it remains to be seen how generally it
is adapted to soils and climates. Should its range of adaptability be
great, Rochester, by virtue of earliness, good quality and handsome
appearance, at once takes a high place in commercial peach-growing in
New York.

Rochester came from a seed planted about 1900 on a farm owned by a Mr.
Wallen, near Rochester, New York. It was introduced by the Heberle
Brothers Nurseries, Brighton, New York, in 1912.

[Illustration: ROCHESTER]

    Trees large, vigorous, upright-spreading, more upright than
    Elberta, productive; trunk medium to thick, somewhat shaggy;
    branches stocky, smooth, ash-gray over red; branchlets
    slender, long, with long internodes, green mottled with
    brownish-red, smooth, glabrous, with numerous inconspicuous,
    small lenticels.

    Leaves six inches long, one and five-eighths inches wide,
    folded upward and slightly recurled, oval to ovate-lanceolate,
    thin, leathery; upper surface dark green but often with a
    lighter tinge, smooth; lower surface grayish-green; apex
    acuminate; margin shallowly crenate; petiole one-half inch
    long, thick, with two to eight large, reniform glands variable
    in position.

    Fruit matures in early mid-season; variable in size, the
    larger specimens varying from three to three and one-half
    inches in diameter, round-oblate, compressed, with unequal
    halves, often bulged near the apex; cavity wide, deep, flaring;
    suture shallow, becoming deeper near the tip; apex variable,
    often with a mucronate tip; color lemon-yellow changing to
    orange-yellow, blushed with deep, dark red, mottled; pubescence
    heavy; skin thick, tough, separates from the pulp; flesh
    yellow, stained with red near the pit, very juicy, tender
    and melting, sweet, highly flavored, sprightly; very good in
    quality; stone free, one and three-eighths inches long, more
    than one inch wide, oval, plump, flattened near the base, with
    roughened surface marked by large, deep pits and short grooves;
    ventral suture deeply furrowed along the edges, rather wide;
    dorsal suture grooved deeply, wide.


ST. JOHN

    =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 320. 1890. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 46. 1891. =3.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 68. 1891. =4.=
    _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:814. 1896. =5.= _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta. Rpt._
    =9=:8 fig. 1902. =6.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 207. 1913.

    _Flater's St. John._ =7.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 613. 1869.

    _Yellow St. John._ =8.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 18. 1871.
    =9.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 64. 1871. =10.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._
    =170=:182. 1906.

    _Fleitas St. John._ =11.= _Pa. Bd. Agr. Rpt._ 586. 1878. =12.=
    _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:235. 1898.

    _May Beauty._ =13.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 148. 1883.

    _Crane._ =14.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:34. 1910.

Unproductiveness and uncertainty in bearing keep this magnificent
yellow-fleshed dessert fruit from being one of the most popular early
peaches. Even with these handicaps, to which may be added small size
in many situations, St. John has maintained great popularity for home
orchards and in many peach-regions is grown for the markets. It is one
of the earliest of the Crawford-like peaches, a perfect freestone,
handsome in appearance, sweet, rich and delicious in flavor and
pleasing in all of the flesh attributes of a good dessert peach. St.
John resembles Early Crawford in size and shape but is a little more
rotund, runs somewhat smaller, is not quite as high in quality and
ripens several days earlier. The trees are all that could be asked for
in size, vigor and hardiness, falling short only in the characters
noted in the opening sentence. St. John should always be planted in the
home orchard and it would seem that it is more often worth planting in
commercial orchards. The color-plate does not do the variety justice
in size, color or shape, the Station grounds being one of the many
places in which the variety cannot be had at its best.

Where, by whom and when St. John originated and what its parentage,
are unknown. It is more than half a century old, came from the South,
and has been widely planted in southern peach-districts, especially
along the southern coast of Alabama. The variety reproduces itself from
seed and this fact has led to its being distributed under a number of
different names as is shown by the synonyms listed in the references.
In Michigan the variety was grown for some time as Crane, or Crane's
Early Yellow, having come from the orchard of Charles G. Crane of
Fennville. Mr. Crane, it appears, had lost the true name of the peach
and after fruiting his supposed seedling for a time it was discovered
by T. T. Lyon[265] to be identical with St. John. In 1871 the American
Pomological Society added this peach to its fruit-list as Yellow St.
John but dropped "Yellow" from the name in 1891, the variety having
appeared since that time in the Society's catalog as St. John.

[Illustration: ST. JOHN]

    Tree medium to large, vigorous, upright-spreading, with the
    lower branches drooping, unproductive; trunk stocky, medium
    to smooth; branches thick, smooth, reddish-brown covered
    with light ash-gray; branchlets with internodes of medium
    length, dark pinkish-red with a trace of green, glossy, smooth,
    glabrous, with a few lenticels variable in size, raised at the
    base.

    Leaves six and one-half inches long, one and three-fourths
    inches wide, flattened or slightly curled downward, oval to
    obovate-lanceolate, thick; upper surface dull, dark green,
    smooth; lower surface grayish-green; apex acuminate; margin
    finely serrate, often in two series, tipped with reddish-brown
    glands; petiole three-eighths inch long, glandless or with one
    to five small, globose glands variable in color and position.

    Flower-buds obtuse, pubescent, plump, appressed or free;
    blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers seven-eighths inch
    across, white toward the base of the petals, becoming dark
    pink near the edges; pedicels short, glabrous, pale green;
    calyx-tube reddish-green, orange-colored within, obconic;
    calyx-lobes obtuse, glabrous within, pubescent without; petals
    small, ovate to oval, notched near the base, tapering to narrow
    claws; filaments seven-sixteenths inch long, equal to the
    petals in length; pistil pubescent near the base, as long as
    the stamens.

    Fruit matures early; two and one-half inches long, two and
    three-fourths inches wide, round-oval, often bulged near the
    apex, usually compressed, with oblique sides; cavity medium to
    deep, wide, abrupt or flaring, often tinged with red; suture
    deep near the tip; apex round or depressed, with a mucronate
    or pointed tip; color deep yellow, blushed and splashed with
    carmine; pubescence thick and long; skin medium to thick,
    tough, variable in adherence to the pulp; flesh light yellow,
    tinged with red near the pit, juicy, tender, pleasantly
    sprightly, highly flavored; very good in quality; stone free,
    one and one-fourth inches long, fifteen-sixteenths inch wide,
    ovate, plump, tapering to a long point, with rough surfaces
    marked by large and small pits; ventral suture deeply grooved
    along the edges, furrowed; dorsal suture a large, deep groove.


SALWEY

    =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:270, 271 fig. 1879. =2.= Hogg
    _Fruit Man._ 460. 1884. =3.= Bunyard _Cat._ 36. 1913-14.

    _Salway._ =4.= _Horticulturist_ N. S. =8=:168. 1858. =5.=
    _Gard. Chron._ 944. 1861. =6.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:51, 52, fig.
    24. 1866-73. =7.= _Am. Hort. Ann._ 80, 81 fig. 38. 1870. =8.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 56. 1871. =9.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._
    1st App. 122. 1872. =10.= _Horticulturist_ =27=:248. 1872.
    =11.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 30. 1875. =12.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._
    =169=:225. 1899. =13.= _Kan. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 48, 49. 1901.
    =14.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:355. 1903. =15.= _Cat.
    Cong. Pom. France_ 114 fig. 1906.

Salwey is one of the two European peaches cultivated on a commercial
scale in America, Rivers being the other. Both find their greatest
usefulness in extending the peach-season, this variety being one of the
latest and Rivers one of the earliest sorts. It is a yellow-fleshed,
freestone peach of attractive appearance and of good quality, neither
handsome enough nor good enough in quality, however, to be considered
a first-class dessert fruit. On the other hand it is one of the best
sorts for canning, preserving and evaporating. The trees are vigorous,
hardy, healthy and very productive but unfortunately ripen their crop
so late in New York that the variety cannot be depended upon. Early
freezes often destroy the fruit and cold, wet weather usually hinders
maturity so much that the peaches are seldom at their best in this
State. Possibly no other peach is more widely grown than Salwey. It is
a standard sort in France, England and in peach-regions in America from
the Atlantic to the Pacific and from Canada to the Gulf. This uncommon
adaptability to diverse soils and climates ought to make it a valuable
sort in peach-breeding. It has the reputation of coming true to seed
but we do not find that many varieties have come from it.

The history of Salwey is not clear. Pomologists generally credit
Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, with being the originator and
introducer of the variety. It is known that Rivers grew it on his
grounds but it is doubtful if he originated it. Other accounts say that
it was raised in 1844 by Colonel Salwey, Egham Park, Surrey, England,
from the seed of an Italian peach. Some say that a Charles Turner,
Slough, England, brought the Italian peach seed from Florence, Italy,
while others state that Turner introduced the new peach. The variety
has long been known in America as Salway but Colonel Salwey, after whom
the peach was named, spelled his name with an "e" and the correction is
made in this text. In 1875 the American Pomological Society added this
peach to its list of recommended fruits under the name Salway.

[Illustration: SALWEY]

    Tree of medium size, vigorous, upright-spreading, becoming
    drooping, dense-topped, hardy, very productive; trunk thick,
    smooth; branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown mingled with
    very light ash-gray; branchlets slender, very long, with a
    tendency to rebranch near the tips; internodes dull pinkish-red
    with but little if any green, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with
    numerous raised lenticels.

    Leaves seven inches long, one and three-fourths inches wide,
    folded upward and recurled, oval to ovate-lanceolate, leathery;
    apex acuminate; upper surface dark, dull green, smooth,
    becoming rugose near the midrib; margin finely serrate, tipped
    with reddish-brown glands; petiole three-eighths inch long,
    glandless or with one to six small, globose and reniform glands
    variable in color and position.

    Flower-buds hardy, conical or pointed, pubescent, appressed
    or partly free; blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers
    seven-eighths inch across, white at the center of the petals,
    becoming pink near the margins; pedicels very short, nearly
    sessile, thick; calyx-tube reddish-green, orange-colored
    within, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes short, narrow,
    acute, glabrous within, pubescent without; petals round,
    broadly oval, widely notched near the base, tapering to long,
    narrow claws red at the base; filaments five-sixteenths inch
    long, equal to the petals in length; pistil pubescent, longer
    than the stamens.

    Fruit matures very late; two and nine-sixteenths inches long,
    two and one-half inches wide, round-cordate, bulged near the
    apex, compressed, with unequal halves; cavity deep, abrupt,
    often splashed with red; suture shallow, often extending
    beyond the tip; apex usually a small, elongated point; color
    greenish-yellow, usually with a brownish-red blush splashed
    dark red; pubescence short, thick, fine; skin thin, tough,
    adherent to the pulp; flesh golden-yellow, faintly tinged with
    red near the pit, juicy, stringy, tender, becomes dry with
    age, sweet, pleasantly flavored, aromatic; good to very good
    in quality; stone free, one and one-half inches long, one and
    one-sixteenth inches wide, oval to roundish-oval, very plump,
    pointed at the base, with large pits and short grooves in the
    surfaces; ventral suture narrow, deeply furrowed along the
    edges; dorsal suture winged, a narrow groove.


SCHUMAKER

    =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =22=:276. 1880. =2.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc.
    Rpt._ 115. 1880. =3.= _Gard. Mon._ =25=:111 fig. 1883. =4.=
    _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 314, 315. 1889. =5.= _R. I. Sta. Bul._
    =7=:41. 1890. =6.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:356. 1903.

    _Shoemaker's Seedling._ =7.= _Cult. & Count. Gent._ =41=:631.
    1876.

Schumaker, now grown only in western New York and Pennsylvania, for
a long time was described as the earliest of the white-fleshed,
clingstone peaches. There are other peaches as early but, on the
Station grounds, this is the best flavored of the early peaches.
Moreover, when fully ripe it is almost a freestone. It is a handsome
peach in color and shape but the fruits are too small though this can
be remedied in part by thinning. The trees are large, hardy, vigorous
and productive to a fault. With all of these good qualities, the wonder
is that Schumaker is not more popular as a commercial variety to open
the season but for some reason peach-growers are not pleased with
it--probably because of the small size of the peaches. For a peach of
its season, Schumaker is remarkably free from brown-rot. Nurserymen
often substitute Alexander for this variety and vice versa.

This variety originated as a seedling with Michael Schumaker, Fairview,
Erie County, Pennsylvania. Its parentage is unknown. It fruited for the
first time in 1877 and was for a few years grown commercially but its
popularity has long been on the wane.

[Illustration: SCHUMAKER]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, becoming drooping,
    open-topped, productive; trunk thick, smooth; branches stocky,
    smooth, reddish-brown tinged with light ash-gray; branchlets
    long, pinkish-red with but a trace of green, glossy, smooth,
    glabrous, with large, conspicuous, raised lenticels.

    Leaves six and one-half inches long, one and five-eighths
    inches wide, variable in position, oval to obovate-lanceolate,
    leathery; upper surface dull, dark green, smooth; lower surface
    grayish-green; margin finely serrate, tipped with reddish-brown
    glands; petiole seven-sixteenths inch long, glandless or with
    one to four small, globose, reddish-brown glands variable in
    position.

    Flower-buds hardy, pubescent, conical or pointed, plump,
    usually free; blossoms appear early; flowers one and one-half
    inches across, pink; pedicels very short, glabrous, green;
    calyx-tube reddish-green at the base, greenish-yellow within,
    obconic, glabrous; calyx-lobes short, acute, glabrous within,
    pubescent without; petals oval to ovate, tapering to claws
    sometimes red at the base; filaments one-half inch long,
    shorter than the petals; pistil pubescent at the base, as long
    as the stamens.

    Fruit matures very early; about two and one-eighth inches in
    diameter, round, compressed, with unequal halves; cavity deep,
    flaring; suture shallow; apex ending in a recurved, mucronate
    tip but variable; color creamy-white, heavily blushed and often
    mottled with dark red; pubescence short, thick; skin thin,
    tender, separates from the pulp when fully ripe; flesh white,
    very juicy, stringy, tender, sweet, aromatic, highly flavored;
    very good in quality; stone clinging, becoming semi-cling when
    fully mature, one and one-fourth inches long, three-fourths
    inch wide, oval, plump, inconspicuously winged, with corrugated
    surfaces.


SMOCK

    =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 193, 194. 1865. =2.= Mas _Le Verger_
    =7=:75, 76, fig. 36. 1866-73. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 28.
    1873. =4.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:279 fig., 280. 1879. =5.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:225, 226. 1899. =6.= Fulton _Peach
    Cult._ 196, 197. 1908.

    _Saint George._ =7.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 193. 1841.

    _Smock Freestone._ =8.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 492. 1845. =9.=
    Bridgeman _Gard. Ass't_ Pt. =3=:108. 1857. =10.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 78. 1862.

Though little grown now, during the last half of the last century Smock
was one of the leading commercial peaches of its season. The variety
has so little to recommend it, however, that we cannot but believe that
reputation more than merit kept up its popularity. The trees are about
all that could be desired but the peaches are of but mediocre quality
and not at all attractive in appearance, lacking in size and color,
are ungainly in shape and have but little uniformity in size, color or
shape. It is one of the latest yellow-fleshed peaches and is said to be
excellent for all culinary purposes. With so many better varieties of
late yellow-fleshed, freestone peaches, Smock is not worth planting for
any purpose.

Smock originated three-quarters of a century or more ago with a
Mr. Smock, Middletown, New Jersey. Variations under such names as
Smock X and Smock (Hance) have arisen as distinct varieties but all
have proved to be identical with the old sort. The name Smock Cling
appears in peach-literature but whether the peach was distinct we
cannot say. Years after the introduction of Smock a peach was put
out under the name "Beers Smock." The differences claimed are that
Beers Smock runs larger and is better in quality than Smock. All
descriptions of the two sorts, however, are so nearly identical that
we believe that the two names are given to the same peach. In 1862 the
American Pomological Society listed Smock in its catalog as Smock
Freestone. In 1873 the name was shortened to Smock and it so appears
today.

[Illustration: SMOCK]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, somewhat drooping,
    dense-topped, tall, usually very productive; trunk medium to
    thick, rough; branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown with very
    light ash-gray tinge; branchlets slender, medium to long, with
    short internodes, dark red intermingled with olive-green,
    glossy, smooth, glabrous, with large, raised lenticels.

    Leaves six and one-fourth inches long, one and one-half inches
    wide, flattened or curved downward, oval to obovate-lanceolate,
    thick; upper surface dull, dark green; smooth; lower surface
    grayish-green; margin finely serrate, tipped with dark red
    glands; petiole three-eighths inch long, with none to five
    small, globose or reniform glands variable in color and
    position.

    Flower-buds tender, conical or pointed, slightly pubescent,
    appressed or free; blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers less
    than one inch across, white at the center of the petals, light
    or dark pink near the edges, often in twos; pedicels short,
    glabrous, greenish; calyx-tube reddish-green at the base,
    orange-colored within, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes
    broad, acute, serrate, glabrous within, pubescent without,
    partly reflexed; petals oval, irregular in outline near the
    base, tapering to long, narrow claws often reddish at the base;
    filaments three-eighths inch long, equal to the petals in
    length; pistil pubescent near the base, equal to or longer than
    the stamens.

    Fruit matures very late; two and one-half inches long, two
    and three-eighths inches wide, oval, irregular, often bulged
    near the apex, compressed, with halves unequal and somewhat
    angular; cavity narrow, abrupt, contracted around the sides,
    twig-marked; suture a mere line, becoming deeper toward the
    apex; apex roundish, with a recurved, mucronate tip; color
    greenish-yellow or sometimes orange-yellow, specked and
    mottled with dull, dark red or sometimes faintly tinted with a
    bronze blush; pubescence very heavy, thick, fine; skin thin,
    tough, adherent to the pulp; flesh yellow, faintly tinged with
    red near the pit, variable in juiciness, tender, sprightly,
    pleasantly flavored; good in quality; stone free, one and
    five-eighths inches long, one and one-sixteenth inches wide,
    oval or obovate, bulged near the apex, flattened toward the
    base, with deeply grooved surfaces; ventral suture narrow,
    winged, deeply grooved along the sides; dorsal suture a wide
    and deep groove, winged.


STEVENS

    =1.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:356, 357. 1903.

    _Stevens Rareripe._ =2.= _N. J. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 42. 1878. =3.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 32. 1889. =4.= _Ont. Fr. Gr. Assoc. Rpt._
    =22=:31, 32. 1890. =5.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:227. 1899. =6.=
    _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta. Rpt._ =9=:38. 1902. =7.= Waugh _Am. Peach
    Orch._ 207. 1913.

Stevens is one of the fruits of the generation just past--a large,
white and red, white-fleshed, freestone peach. The variety is best
known as Stevens Rareripe but the last part of the name is inapt for
the true rareripes are earlier ripening peaches while with Stevens
lateness is one of its prime assets. In quality the fruits are extra
good, the flesh-characters pleasing in every respect. The flavor is a
pleasing mingling of sweet and sour not found in many other peaches so
late in the season. The appearance of the peach is as alluring as the
taste. The color-plate shows the variety almost perfectly in color and
shape but the peaches as depicted are rather smaller than the average.
These late, white-fleshed peaches now seldom sell well, usually
reaching the markets in poor condition, but they are choice fruits for
home use and for this purpose Stevens should be planted in every home
orchard. The variety has the reputation of being hardy in both wood and
buds.

Stevens originated about 1858 on the farm of B. Stevens, Morristown,
New Jersey. Its parentage is unknown. It was listed in the American
Pomological Society's catalog in 1889 as Stevens Rareripe. Later the
name was shortened to Stevens in accordance with the Society's rules of
nomenclature.

[Illustration: STEVENS]

    Tree vigorous, upright-spreading, with the lower branches
    inclined to droop, productive; trunk of medium thickness,
    rough; branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown mingled with
    light ash-gray; branchlets thick, dark reddish-brown with but
    little green, glossy, smooth, with numerous large and small
    lenticels.

    Leaves six inches long, one and five-eighths inches
    wide, folded upward and slightly recurled, oval to
    obovate-lanceolate, leathery; upper surface dark green, glossy,
    rugose along the midrib; lower surface light green; margin
    finely serrate, tipped with reddish-brown glands; petiole
    three-eighths inch long, glandless or with one to six small,
    reniform glands usually at the base of the leaf; flower-buds
    intermediate in size and length, conical to pointed, somewhat
    appressed, pubescent; flowers small.

    Fruit matures late; about two and eleven-sixteenths inches
    in diameter, round to round-oval, with nearly equal sides;
    cavity deep, wide, flaring to abrupt; suture medium to deep,
    often extending beyond the tip; apex roundish, with a strongly
    mucronate and recurved tip; color greenish-white overlaid
    with attractive purplish-red, often mottled or splashed with
    darker red; pubescence short, fine; skin thick, tough, adherent
    to the pulp; flesh white, tinted with red near the pit and
    reddish underneath the deepest surface blush, juicy, coarse,
    sweet, sprightly; good in quality; stone nearly free, one and
    five-eighths inches long, one and one-eighth inches wide,
    obovate, flattened at the base, plump, with grooved surfaces;
    ventral suture medium to deeply grooved along the edges,
    intermediate in width, furrowed; dorsal suture deeply grooved,
    winged.


STUMP

    =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:817. 1896. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 22. 1897. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:227. 1899. =4.=
    Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:357. 1903.

    _Stump the World._ =5.= _U. S. Pat. Off. Rpt._ 299. 1854. =6.=
    Elliott _Fr. Book_ 304. 1859. =7.= _Horticulturist_ =14=:106,
    107, Pl. 1859. =8.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 80. 1862. =9.= _U.
    S. D. A. Rpt._ 193. 1865. =10.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 232. 1866.
    =11.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 633. 1869. =12.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._
    =42=:242. 1898. =13.= Fulton _Peach Cult._ 189, 190. 1908.

    _Stump-of-the-World._ =14.= _N. J. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 41, 42.
    1878.

    _Pêche du New-Jersey._ =15.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:195, 196
    fig. 1879.

    _Late Stump._ =16.= _Ark. Sta. Bul._ =43=:102. 1896.

Stump has long been a favorite white-fleshed, freestone, late peach
of the Oldmixon type. It is not a handsome fruit, the color-plate
flattering rather than detracting from its appearance, but makes
up in quality what it lacks in looks. The flesh is melting, juicy,
sparkling, rich and good though dry and very mediocre if permitted to
overripen. The peaches are too tender for distant shipment and the
variety is of value only for local markets and home use. The trees
are large, vigorous, hardy, healthy and productive, with a shapely,
upright-spreading, dense-topped head--about all that could be desired
in a peach-tree. In spite of the high quality of the peaches and the
splendid tree-characters, Stump is steadily waning in popularity and
will, no doubt, soon pass from cultivation.

We can say little of the history of Stump other than that it originated
in New Jersey at least three-quarters of a century ago. A Mr. Brant,
Madison, New Jersey, in a report on peaches at the meeting of the
New Jersey Horticultural Society in 1878 mentions a variety as
Stump-of-the-World which originated on the farm of Samuel Whitehead
in Middlesex County, New Jersey, about 1825. Mr. Brant, however,
considered this sort distinct from Stump although very similar to it.
From the description he gives it seems certain that he was describing
the true Stump. In 1862 the American Pomological Society listed this
sort in its catalog as Stump the World. The name was shortened to Stump
in 1897 by the committee on nomenclature in accordance with pomological
rules.

[Illustration: STUMP]

    Tree of medium size, vigorous, upright-spreading, dense-topped,
    productive; trunk medium in diameter, smooth; branches stocky,
    smooth, reddish-brown tinged with light ash-gray; branchlets
    thick, inclined to rebranch, long, with internodes dark red
    mingled with olive-green, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with many
    conspicuous, small, raised lenticels.

    Leaves six and three-fourths inches long, one and three-fourths
    inches wide, folded downward, broad-oval to obovate-lanceolate,
    leathery; upper surface dull, dark green, rugose along the
    midrib; lower surface grayish-green; margin finely serrate,
    often in two series, tipped with reddish-brown glands; petiole
    seven-sixteenths inch long, with one to four globose glands
    variable in color and position.

    Flower-buds semi-hardy, pubescent, conical to pointed, plump,
    usually more or less free; blossoms appear in mid-season;
    flowers thirteen-sixteenths inch across, white at the center,
    becoming pink near the margin; pedicels long, slender;
    calyx-tube dull reddish-green, yellow within, campanulate,
    glabrous; calyx-lobes acute, obtuse, glabrous within, pubescent
    without; petals oval, faintly notched near the base, tapering
    to very short claws tinged with red near the base; filaments
    five-sixteenths inch long, equal to the petals in length;
    pistil pubescent at the ovary, longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures late; about two and one-half inches in diameter,
    round-oval to cordate bulged near the apex, compressed, with
    markedly unequal halves; cavity shallow, wide, uneven in
    outline, flaring or abrupt, with tender skin; suture shallow,
    often extending beyond the tip; apex round or pointed, with a
    recurved, mucronate tip; color creamy-white, blushed, mottled
    and splashed with red; pubescence long, thick, coarse; skin
    thin, tough, separates from the pulp; flesh white, strongly
    stained with red near the pit, juicy, tender and melting,
    sweet, rich, pleasantly flavored, aromatic; very good in
    quality; stone nearly free, one and one-half inches long, one
    and one-sixteenth inches wide, ovate to oval, plump, flattened
    toward the base, tapering to a long point, with grooved
    surfaces; ventral suture deeply marked along the edges, narrow,
    sometimes winged; dorsal suture grooved.


SUMMER SNOW

    =1.= _Okla. Sta. Bul._ =2=:15. 1892. =2.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._
    =118=:31. 1895. =3.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 691. 1897. =4.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:227. 1899. =5.= _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta.
    Rpt._ =7=:55. 1900.

Summer Snow is a curiosity with some value for culinary purposes Its
distinctive peculiarities are a skin almost pure white and flesh white
as snow from skin to pit. The quality is poor and the flesh clings to
the pit so tenaciously that the variety has no value, whatsoever, for
dessert but is said to be excellent for pickling and to make a very
good and a very distinctive canned product.

There are no records of the origin of this peach but it is doubtful if
it dates back more than a quarter of a century. The variety is very
similar to the old Snow, which was probably its prototype, differing
essentially in having a clinging stone while the stone of Snow is free.
In New York the name is a misnomer as the fruit does not ripen until
the last of September or early in October. Albino peaches date back to
the early records of this fruit and seem to be known wherever peaches
are grown. Whenever seedling peaches are grown in large numbers, an
occasional albino appears.

[Illustration: SUMMER SNOW]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, slightly drooping,
    productive; trunk thick and, smooth; branches stocky, smooth,
    reddish-brown mingled with very light ash-gray; branchlets very
    long, inclined to rebranch, with internodes of medium length,
    olive-green intermingled with light brown, smooth, glabrous,
    with conspicuous, russet-colored lenticels.

    Leaves six and one-fourth inches long, one and five-eighths
    inches wide, flattened or curved downward, oval to
    obovate-lanceolate, thin; upper surface dull green, smooth;
    lower surface grayish-green; margin finely serrate, tipped
    with reddish-brown glands; petiole three-eighths inch long,
    glandless or with one to six small, globose and reniform glands
    variable in color and position.

    Leaf-buds semi-hardy, small, short, variable in shape, plump,
    appressed or slightly free; blossoms appear in mid-season;
    flowers one and five-eighths inches across, white, sometimes in
    twos; pedicels short, thick, glabrous, green; calyx-tube tinged
    with green, yellow within, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes
    variable in length, medium to narrow, acute, glabrous
    within, pubescent without; petals often pointed at the apex,
    round-ovate, broadly notched at the base, tapering to broad,
    short claws; filaments seven-sixteenths inch long, shorter than
    the petals; pistil pubescent near the base, as long as the
    stamens.

    Fruit matures late; two and three-eighths inches long, two and
    five-sixteenths inches wide, round-cordate, somewhat angular,
    bulged at one side, compressed, with unequal sides; cavity
    deep, narrow, abrupt, contracted about the sides, twig-marked;
    suture shallow, becoming deeper toward the tip; apex roundish
    or depressed, with a mucronate or sometimes a small, mamelon
    tip; color greenish-white changing to creamy-white, without
    blush; pubescence long, thick, coarse; skin thin, tender,
    adherent to the pulp; flesh white to the pit, juicy, meaty,
    mildly sweet to sprightly; fair in quality; stone firmly
    clinging, one and nine-sixteenths inches long, one and
    one-eighth inches wide, broad-oval, often bulged near the apex,
    winged, with pitted surfaces marked with short grooves; ventral
    suture rather narrow, winged, with furrows of medium depth
    along the sides; dorsal suture grooved, with winged sides.


SURPASSE

    =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:227. 1899. =2.= Budd-Hansen _Am.
    Hort. Man._ =2=:357. 1903.

    _Surpasse Melocoton._ =3.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 33. 1874.
    =4.= Barry _Fr. Garden_ 407. 1883. =5.= _R. I. Sta. Bul._
    =7=:41. 1890.

As Surpasse grows on the Station grounds, it has most of the qualities
of a first-class yellow-fleshed, freestone peach. The fruits are large,
handsome and of excellent quality, while the trees are satisfactory in
every respect except, possibly, in productiveness. The variety has been
grown sufficiently long in New York to have been well tested and has
not found favor, so that we must conclude that it does not do as well
elsewhere as here and that it is doomed to go into the discard.

Surpasse originated more than forty years ago on the grounds of
Ellwanger & Barry, Rochester, New York, and has long been sold by this
nursery firm. It has never been widely nor largely grown commercially
but is not uncommon in western New York.

[Illustration: SURPASSE]

    Tree above medium size, vigorous, upright-spreading, with a
    tendency to droop, rather unproductive; trunk thick and smooth;
    branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown mingled with light
    ash-gray; branchlets thick, inclined to rebranch, long, dark
    pinkish-red with some green, smooth except for the lenticels,
    glabrous, with very conspicuous, numerous, large and small,
    raised lenticels.

    Leaves six inches long, one and five-eighths inches wide,
    variable in position, oval to obovate-lanceolate, leathery;
    upper surface dark olive-green, rugose along the midrib; apex
    acuminate; margin finely serrate, tipped with reddish-brown
    glands; petiole seven-sixteenths inch long, glandless or
    with one to four small, globose glands variable in color and
    position.

    Flower-buds tender, pubescent, conical to pointed, plump,
    usually free; blossoms open in mid-season; flowers
    seven-eighths inch across, light pink but darker along the
    edges, usually single; pedicels short, glabrous, green;
    calyx-tube reddish-green, orange-colored within, campanulate,
    glabrous; calyx-lobes long, narrow, acute, glabrous within,
    pubescent without; petals ovate, with short, indistinct claws;
    filaments three-eighths inch long, equal to the petals in
    length; pistil as long as the stamens.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and one-half inches long,
    two and three-eighths inches wide, round-cordate, irregular,
    compressed, much bulged near the apex, with unequal halves;
    cavity deep, wide, flaring to abrupt, with tender, reddish
    skin; suture a line becoming deeper toward the tip; apex
    pointed, usually with an erect, mamelon tip; color pale yellow
    or orange-yellow, mottled and splashed more or less with red
    and overspread with a lively, dark red blush; pubescence
    medium in length, thick, fine; skin thin, separates from
    the pulp; flesh light yellow, red near the pit, very juicy,
    rather coarse, stringy, tender and melting, sprightly, highly
    flavored; good to very good in quality; stone free, one and
    three-eighths inches long, fifteen-sixteenths inch wide, ovate,
    rather plump, tapering to a long point, sometimes slightly
    winged along the ventral suture, with pitted surfaces; ventral
    suture deeply grooved along the edges, below medium in width,
    furrowed; dorsal suture grooved, winged.


THURBER

    =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 75. 1873. =2.= _Gard. Mon._ =17=:175.
    1875. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 2nd App. 144. 1876. =4.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 32. 1881. =5.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:109
    fig. 8, 110. 1901. =6.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:357.
    1903.

Thurber is mediocre in all of its characters in New York, though
perhaps it is a little better in quality than the average
white-fleshed, mid-season freestone. In the South, however, it seems
to be considered one of the best of its class not only in quality
but in size and appearance. The fruits are small in New York, as the
color-plate shows, while all descriptions of them in the South say they
are large. The variety is possibly worth planting, because of good
quality, in home orchards in this State.

Thurber is a seedling of Chinese Cling grown by L. E. Berckmans, Rome,
Georgia, more than forty years ago. The variety was named in honor of
Dr. George Thurber, American botanist, naturalist and editor. It is
similar to its parent but is a freestone and the trees are more compact
and thrifty than those of Chinese Cling. The American Pomological
Society added Thurber to its fruit-list in 1881, a place it still holds.

[Illustration: THURBER]

    Tree above medium size, vigorous, upright-spreading,
    productive; trunk thick and smooth; branches stocky, smooth,
    reddish-brown mingled with light ash-gray; branchlets slender,
    often very long, olive-green with some red, glossy, smooth,
    glabrous, with numerous conspicuous, raised lenticels variable
    in size, usually russetted toward the base.

    Leaves six inches long, over one and one-half inches wide,
    flattened or curled downward, oval to obovate-lanceolate,
    leathery; upper surface dull, dark green, smooth becoming
    rugose along the midrib; lower surface grayish-green; margin
    finely serrate, tipped with reddish-brown glands; petiole
    three-eighths inch long, glandless or with one to four small,
    globose glands variable in color and position.

    Flower-buds tender, large, medium to short, heavily pubescent,
    obtuse, very plump, usually free; blossoms open in mid-season;
    flowers one and one-eighth inches across, light pink, darker
    along the edges, usually single; pedicels long, slender,
    glabrous, greenish; calyx-tube reddish-green, greenish-yellow
    within, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes acute, glabrous
    within, heavily pubescent without, flattened; petals ovate,
    tapering to short, narrow claws; filaments seven-sixteenths
    inch long, equal to the petals in length; pistil longer than
    the stamens.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and three-eighths inches
    long, two and one-eighth inches wide, round-oval, somewhat
    compressed, with unequal halves; cavity shallow, narrow,
    flaring or abrupt, often tinted with red, compressed about the
    sides; suture a line or very shallow, often extending beyond
    the tip; apex round, with a recurved, mucronate or mamelon tip;
    color green or creamy-white, with few splashes of dull red over
    a lively red blush; pubescence long, coarse, thick; skin thin,
    tough, variable in adherence to the pulp; flesh white, deeply
    stained with red near the pit, juicy, tender and melting,
    pleasantly sprightly, aromatic; good in quality; stone free,
    one and one-half inches long, more than an inch wide, red,
    obovate to oval, flattened toward the base, plump, tapering
    to a short point, often winged on the ventral suture, with
    surfaces pitted and marked by short grooves; ventral suture
    deeply grooved along the edges, narrow; dorsal suture grooved,
    slightly winged.


TRIANA

    =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:819. 1896. =2.= _Fla. Sta. Bul._
    =73=:152. 1904. =3.= _Glen St. Mary Nur. Cat._ 23. 1906. =4.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 39. 1909.

Triana is another of the honey-fleshed, beaked peaches supposed to
thrive only in the far South. It can be grown, however, with about
as much certainty in New York as many of the standard varieties of
the North. Its small size and poor shipping qualities debar it from
competing with commercial peaches in this region but it is well worth
planting in home orchards for the sake of variety and because of
its delicious flavor--a sort of scented sweetness wholly unknown in
northern varieties. The good health, vigor, size and hardiness of these
honey-peaches on the Station grounds is a constant surprise to those
who have believed that they could be grown only in the Gulf States.

Triana originated a quarter of a century or more ago at the Glen Saint
Mary Nurseries, Glen Saint Mary, Florida. It was introduced in 1892 by
the originators. The American Pomological Society added Triana to its
fruit-list in 1909.

[Illustration: TRIANA]

    Tree of medium size, upright-spreading, open-topped,
    productive; branches greenish-red; branchlets slender, long,
    with a tendency to rebranch, dark red with some olive-green,
    rough, glabrous, with numerous conspicuous, large, raised
    lenticels.

    Leaves five and one-half inches long, one and five-eighths
    inches wide, folded upward and recurled, slightly lanceolate,
    thin, leathery; upper surface dark green, smooth; lower surface
    grayish-green, with prominent mid-rib; margin finely serrate;
    petiole three-eighths inch long, with one to five small,
    reniform glands variable in position.

    Flower-buds half-hardy, short, pubescent, conical, plump,
    usually appressed; blossoms one and one-half inches across,
    pale red, in dense clusters, usually single; pedicels long,
    slender, glabrous, greenish; calyx-tube reddish-green, dark
    greenish-yellow within, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes
    acute, glabrous within, pubescent without; petals oval to
    long-ovate, tapering to short claws; filaments seven-sixteenths
    inch long, shorter than the petals; pistil pubescent at the
    ovary, often longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures in late mid-season; two and one-eighth inches
    long, one and thirteen-sixteenths inches wide, oval,
    compressed, with unequal halves; cavity shallow, flaring;
    suture of medium depth; apex a long, mucronate tip; color
    creamy-white, blushed, splashed and mottled with bright red;
    pubescence short, fine; skin thin, tender, adhering to the
    pulp; flesh white, faintly stained with red near the pit,
    tender, sweet, mild; good in quality; stone nearly free, one
    and one-fourth inches long, one and three-fourths inches wide,
    oval or elliptical, usually with pitted surfaces; ventral
    suture deeply grooved along the edges; dorsal suture grooved.


TRIUMPH

    =1.= _Gard. & For._ =8=:20. 1895. =2.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._
    44. 1895. =3.= Kan. Hort. Soc. _Peach, The_ 49. 1899. =4.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 34. 1899. =5.= _Can. Hort._ =24=:401, fig.
    2158. 1901. =6.= _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta. Rpt._ =9=:38. 1902. =7.=
    Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:358. 1903. =8.= _Ohio Sta.
    Bul._ =170=:182. 1906. =9.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 196, 208.
    1913.

    _Triomphe._ =10.= _Rev. Hort._ 79. 1895.

Triumph is an extra early, yellow-fleshed peach so inferior in
appearance and quality of fruit and so subject to brown-rot that it is
not worth growing in any but the most northern peach-regions where,
because of great hardiness in wood and bud, it becomes a valuable
variety. It is grown more or less, however, both north and south
because it is one of the earliest yellow-fleshed sorts and because
the trees bear regularly and abundantly. The dark color and the great
amount of fuzzy pubescence detract materially from the appearance of
the peach. The specimens shown in the color-plate are from unthinned
trees; the size can be increased by thinning. Small pits somewhat
offset the small size of the fruits. The peaches, if not attacked
by brown-rot, stand shipment splendidly, a character which adds to its
value for early markets. Though often put down as a clingstone it is,
when well grown, a semi-cling and sometimes the stone is free.

Triumph is one of several seedlings grown by J. D. Husted, Vineyard,
Georgia. It is supposed to be an offspring of Alexander. The date of
origin is unknown but references go back to 1895. Triumph was placed on
the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society in 1899.

[Illustration: TRIUMPH]

    Tree of medium size, vigorous, upright-spreading, with lower
    branches drooping, hardy, very productive; trunk intermediate
    in thickness and smoothness; branches stocky, smooth,
    reddish-brown intermingled with very light ash-gray; branchlets
    slender, long, with internodes of medium length, dark
    pinkish-red with some green, glossy, very smooth, glabrous,
    with many conspicuous, small, raised lenticels.

    Leaves six inches long, one and five-eighths inches wide,
    flattened or curled downward, oval to obovate-lanceolate, thin,
    leathery; upper surface dull, dark olive-green, rugose near
    the midrib; lower surface grayish-green; margin finely and
    shallowly serrate, tipped with reddish-brown glands; petiole
    three-eighths inch long, glandless or with one to four very
    small, globose glands variable in position.

    Flower-buds hardy, small, short, pubescent, obtuse or pointed,
    plump, appressed or free; blossoms unfold early; flowers
    one and five-eighths inches across, dark pink, sometimes in
    twos; pedicels short, slender, glabrous, green; calyx-tube
    reddish-green at the base, orange-colored within, campanulate,
    glabrous; calyx-lobes broad, obtuse, glabrous within, pubescent
    without; petals broadly oval to ovate, widely notched near
    the base, tapering to claws with reddish base; filaments
    seven-sixteenths inch long, shorter than the petals; pistil
    pubescent near the base, equal in length to the stamens.

    Fruit matures early; two inches long, two and one-eighth inches
    wide, roundish-oval, compressed, with unequal sides; cavity
    deep, abrupt, with tender skin; suture shallow; apex roundish,
    with a mamelon and recurved tip; color pale yellow overlaid
    with dark red; pubescence thick and long; skin thin, adherent
    to the pulp; flesh yellow, stained with red near the pit,
    juicy, firm until fully ripe, sprightly; fair in quality; stone
    semi-free to free when fully ripe, one and one-fourth inches
    long, seven-eighths inch wide, obovate, flattened wedge-like at
    the base, bulged at one side near the apex, plump, with deeply
    grooved surfaces; ventral suture deeply grooved along the
    edges, furrowed; dorsal suture winged, deeply grooved, rather
    wide.


TROTH

    =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 35. 1899. =2.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._
    =169=:228. 1899. =3.= _Am. Gard._ =24=:413. 1903.

    _Troth's Early Rareripe._ =4.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 183. 1841.

    _Troth's Early Red._ =5.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 304. 1859. =6.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 634. 1869.

    _Troth's Early._ =7.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 80. 1862. =8.= _Am.
    Jour. Hort._ =3=:341. 1868. =9.= Fulton

    _Peach Cult._ 183, 184. 1908.

Troth, the standard early peach in the middle of the last century, is
now all but out of cultivation. It is still listed in a few nursery
catalogs and is still on the fruit-list of the American Pomological
Society. Among the multitude of early peaches now grown, Troth cuts
but a sorry figure in either tree- or fruit-characters. It is worth
discussing here only because it is a milestone in the evolution of
cultivated peaches.

Troth, first known as Troth's Early Red, originated in the first years
of the Nineteenth Century, probably in New Jersey. Nothing is known of
its parentage or of the originator. It ripens with Early York and some
pomologists have confused it with this variety and also with Haines
but, while similar to both, Troth is distinct. The American Pomological
Society placed the variety upon its fruit-list in 1862 under the name
Troth's Early Red but dropped it in 1891. In 1899 it was once more
recommended by the Pomological Society, being listed as Troth.

    Tree above medium in size, vigorous, upright-spreading, the
    lower branches drooping, very productive; trunk somewhat
    stocky; branches thick, smooth, reddish-brown covered
    with light ash-gray; branchlets slender, long, with short
    internodes, dark pinkish-red intermingled with green, with
    conspicuous, very numerous, large and small lenticels;
    leaves six and one-fourth inches long, one and three-fourths
    inches wide, flattened and slightly curled downward, oval to
    obovate-lanceolate, leathery, dark, dull green, smooth becoming
    rugose near the midrib; margin finely and shallowly serrate,
    tipped with reddish-brown glands; petiole seven-sixteenths
    inch long, with one to five very small, globose, reddish-brown
    glands; flower-buds half-hardy, of medium size and length, more
    or less pubescent, obtuse or conical, plump, usually appressed;
    blossoms small, appear in mid-season.

    Fruit matures in early mid-season; two inches long, two and
    one-eighth inches wide, roundish-oblate, slightly bulged at
    one side, somewhat compressed, with halves decidedly unequal;
    cavity of medium depth and width, abrupt, somewhat irregular,
    contracted about the sides, often dotted and striped with
    red; suture rather shallow, extending considerably beyond the
    point; apex roundish or depressed, with a mucronate or slightly
    pointed tip; color greenish-white or creamy-white, blushed with
    dark, dull red and with more or less heavy mottlings extending
    over more than half of the surface; pubescence thick, short;
    skin thin, tender, adheres somewhat to the pulp; flesh whitish,
    tinged with red near the pit, variable in juiciness, tender,
    nearly melting, pleasant flavored; fair to good in quality;
    stone free, one and one-eighths inches long, seven-eighths inch
    wide, oval, flattened toward the base, acute at the apex, with
    grooved surfaces; ventral suture medium in width; dorsal suture
    grooved.


WADDELL

    =1.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:242. 1898. =2.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._
    =13=:111 fig. 9. 1901. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 249. 1903.
    =4.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:358. 1903. =5.= _Ohio
    Sta. Bul._ =170=:182. 1906. =6.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 39. 1909.
    =7.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 208. 1913.

Waddell is an early mid-season, white-fleshed, semi-cling peach from
Georgia, a very evident descendant of Chinese Cling. The variety is
now widely grown and is everywhere esteemed as a commercial sort. Its
chief competitor is Carman, compared with which the fruit differs in
ripening a few days early; is handsomer, in color at least, the two,
as the color-plates show, being very similar in size and shape; is of
rather finer texture of flesh and is better flavored; and, lastly,
according to most reports, Waddell is a better shipper than Carman.
The variety has not been nearly as widely nor as generally planted as
the better-known Carman but we are of the opinion that it has been a
greater factor in the success of a score or more of the big commercial
peach-orchards, North and South, of the last few years. It is a
particularly pleasing peach in New York and ought to be considered for
every commercial plantation where a variety of its season is wanted to
precede or to compete with Carman.

Waddell is a chance seedling found by William Waddell, Griffin,
Georgia. The variety was introduced by J. H. Hale, South Glastonbury,
Connecticut. The American Pomological Society added Waddell to its
fruit-list in 1909.

[Illustration: WADDELL]

    Tree medium in size, vigorous, upright becoming spreading and
    with the lower branches inclined to droop, hardy, productive;
    trunk thick, smooth; branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown
    tinged with light ash-gray; branchlets long, inclined to
    rebranch, dark pinkish-red overspread with green, glossy,
    smooth, glabrous, with numerous conspicuous, raised lenticels
    variable in size.

    Leaves six inches long, one and three-fourths inches wide,
    folded upward and curled downward, oval to obovate-lanceolate,
    leathery; upper surface dull, dark green, smooth; lower surface
    grayish-green; apex acuminate; margin finely serrate, tipped
    with reddish-brown glands; petiole three-eighths inch long,
    with one to four small, globose, reddish-brown glands variable
    in position.

    Flower-buds hardy, conical or pointed, pubescent, usually
    appressed; blossoms appear in mid-season; flowers one and
    three-fourths inches across, red becoming pale pink, in
    clusters of twos; pedicels short, slender, glabrous, green;
    calyx-tube reddish-green at the base, greenish-yellow within,
    campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes broad, obtuse, glabrous
    within, pubescent without; petals oval, crenate, irregular in
    outline near the base, tapering to claws with reddish base;
    filaments seven-sixteenths inch long, shorter than the petals;
    pistil pubescent near the base, equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit matures in early mid-season; two and one-fourth inches
    long, about two inches wide, oval to roundish-oval, compressed,
    bulged on one side, with unequal halves; cavity deep, abrupt,
    with tender skin, tinged with pink; suture shallow, deepening
    toward the apex and extending beyond; apex roundish, with a
    small, mucronate tip; color creamy-white, blushed with red
    and with a few dull splashes of darker red; pubescence thick;
    skin tough, separates from the pulp; flesh white, stained with
    pink near the pit, juicy, stringy firm but tender, sweet but
    sprightly, aromatic; very good in quality; stone semi-free to
    free, one and three-eighths inches long, one inch wide, ovate;
    ventral suture deeply grooved along the sides, faintly winged;
    dorsal suture grooved, not winged.


WAGER

    =1.= _Cult. & Count. Gent._ =43=:584. 1878. =2.= _W. N. Y.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 113, 114. 1880. =3.= _Cult. & Count. Gent._
    =48=:823. 1883. =4.= Black _Cult. Peach & Pear_ 111. 1886. =5.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 22. 1897. =6.= Kan. Hort. Soc. _Peach,
    The_ 148. 1899. =7.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:358, 359.
    1903.

Hardiness, productiveness and early bearing are the outstanding
characters of Wager that give it a high place in the peach-list for
New York. It is a yellow-fleshed, freestone peach none too attractive
in coloring, always rather small and of only fair quality as a dessert
fruit but excellent for canning, drying and all culinary purposes. The
variety comes true to seed, or nearly so. The fruits of Wager are not
attractive enough and the trees are too small to make the variety of
much value in commercial plantations but it is a very good peach for
home orchards and one of the best of all where hardiness is a prime
requisite. Several quite distinct peaches are sold by nurserymen as
Wager.

Wager originated some time previous to 1870 with Benjamin Wager, West
Bloomfield, Ontario County, New York. The variety was added to the
fruit-list of the American Pomological Society in 1897.

[Illustration: WAGER]

    Tree medium in size or small, upright-spreading, hardy,
    productive; trunk intermediate in thickness and smoothness;
    branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown overlaid with light
    ash-gray; branchlets rebranching near the tips, dark red with
    some green, roughened by the lenticels, which are medium in
    size and number.

    Leaves five and one-half inches long, one and one-fourth inches
    wide, flattened or curled downward, oval to obovate-lanceolate,
    thin, leathery; upper surface dull, dark green, rugose along
    the midrib; lower surface grayish-green; apex acuminate; margin
    finely serrate, tipped with reddish-brown glands; petiole
    five-sixteenths inch long, with two to four small, globose or
    reniform glands variable in color and position.

    Flower-buds medium in size and length, heavily pubescent,
    conical, plump, usually free; blossoms appear in mid-season;
    flowers one and one-eighth inches across; pedicels very
    short, thick, glabrous, green; calyx-tube reddish-green,
    orange-colored within, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes
    narrow, acute, glabrous within, pubescent without; petals oval,
    broadly notched, tapering to claws red at the base; filaments
    three-eighths inch long, shorter than the petals; pistil
    pubescent at the ovary, longer than the stamens.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and one-half inches long,
    two and one-fourth inches wide, oval, bulged near the apex,
    sometimes conical, compressed, with unequal halves; cavity
    flaring or abrupt, often mottled with red and with tender skin;
    suture a line, becoming deeper toward the tip; apex roundish
    or pointed, usually with a mamelon, recurved tip; color
    orange-yellow, blushed and mottled with dark red; pubescence
    thick, long and fine; skin thin, tough, separates from the
    pulp; flesh yellow, faintly stained with red near the pit,
    meaty but tender, sweet, mild; good in quality; stone free, one
    and three-eighths inches long, one inch wide, ovate, flattened
    near the base, with pitted surfaces, marked with few short
    grooves; ventral suture deeply grooved along the sides, wide,
    furrowed; dorsal suture a wide, deep groove.


WATERLOO

    =1.= _Cult. & Count. Gent._ =43=:489. 1878. =2.= _W. N. Y.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 51. 1879. =3.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 463. 1884.
    =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 34. 1885. =5.= _Ibid._ 22. 1897. =6.=
    _Garden_ =66=:112. 1904. =7.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._
    =2=:359. 1903. =8.= Fulton _Peach Cult._ 173. 1908. =9.= Waugh
    _Am. Peach Orch._ 209. 1913.

Waterloo is without honor in its own country but is a standard peach
in England. In spite of the fact that the variety originated within
ten miles of the Station grounds it is all but worthless here as it is
in most parts of New York. Waterloo is an extra-early, white-fleshed,
semi-cling peach very similar to the better-known Canada. The faults
that condemn it are small size, poor quality, susceptibility to
brown-rot and a long period of ripening for the fruit and small
size and unproductiveness in the tree. It is given prominence in
_The Peaches of New York_ only because it is so often noted in the
horticultural press as a standard variety, an opinion, no doubt,
reflected in America from European publications.

Waterloo was first grown by Henry Lisk, Waterloo, Seneca County, New
York, who brought it to notice in 1877. Thomas Rivers introduced
it into England where it has long been grown and esteemed for its
earliness and good quality. The American Pomological Society placed
Waterloo in its fruit-catalog in 1885, where it remained until 1891
when it was dropped, but was replaced in 1897.

[Illustration: WATERLOO]

    Tree small, upright-spreading, sometimes productive; trunk
    smooth; branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown covered with
    light ash-gray; branchlets very long, rebranching, with
    internodes of medium length, dark pinkish-red mingled with
    green, glossy, smooth, glabrous, with few large lenticels.

    Leaves six and one-fourth inches long, one and three-fourths
    inches wide, flattened, oval to obovate-lanceolate, leathery;
    upper surface dull, dark olive-green, smooth; lower surface
    grayish-green; margin finely serrate, tipped with reddish-brown
    glands; petiole seven-sixteenths inch long, glandless or with
    one to four small, globose and reniform, reddish-brown glands
    variable in position.

    Flower-buds half-hardy, obtuse or conical, plump, usually free,
    pubescent; flowers appear in mid-season; blossoms one and
    one-half inches across, light pink, usually single; pedicels
    very short, thick, green; calyx-tube lemon-yellow within,
    campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes short, obtuse, glabrous
    within, pubescent without; petals ovate, tapering to claws with
    reddish base; filaments one-half inch long, shorter than the
    petals; pistil equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit matures very early; nearly two inches in diameter,
    roundish, with equal halves; cavity deep, wide flaring; suture
    shallow; apex depressed, with a recurved, mamelon tip; color
    creamy-white, blushed and mottled with red; pubescence short,
    thick; skin thin, adherent to the pulp; flesh greenish-white,
    juicy, stringy, tender and melting, sweet, mild, fair to good
    in quality; stone semi-clinging, one and one-sixteenth inches
    long, three-fourths inch wide, oval, plump, acutely pointed at
    the apex, with pitted surfaces; dorsal suture slightly winging.


WHEATLAND

    =1.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 550. 1875-85. =2.= _W. N. Y.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 113. 1880. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 3rd
    App. 173. 1881. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 34. 1883. =5.= _Tex.
    Sta. Bul._ =39=:815. 1896. =6.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._
    =2=:359. 1903. =7.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 209. 1913.

Wheatland is a large, yellow-fleshed, freestone peach of excellent
quality which ripens just before Late Crawford. Although the variety
originated in this State it is little grown here now, being somewhat
more popular westward in Michigan and very much grown in Colorado and
Utah. The fruit is about all that could be desired in New York but the
trees are so unproductive that the variety is nowhere grown in this
region with profit. The beauty and high quality of the fruit might make
it desirable for home orchards.

Wheatland is a chance seedling found about 1870 on the grounds of
Daniel E. Rogers, Scottsville, New York. The variety was placed on the
fruit-list of the American Pomological Society in 1883.

[Illustration: WHEATLAND]

    Tree medium to large, vigorous, upright-spreading, with the
    lower branches drooping, hardy, rather unproductive; trunk
    thick and smooth; branches stocky, smooth, reddish-brown tinged
    with light ash-gray; branchlets long, with long internodes,
    inclined to rebranch, dark pinkish-red with but little green,
    smooth, glabrous, with conspicuous, large and small, raised
    lenticels intermediate in number.

    Leaves six and one-half inches long, one and three-fourths
    inches wide, folded upward and recurved downward, oval to
    obovate-lanceolate, leathery; upper surface dark green, rugose;
    lower surface grayish-green; margin finely serrate, tipped with
    reddish-brown glands; petiole five-sixteenths inch long, with
    one to five small, globose and reniform, reddish-brown glands
    variable in position.

    Flower-buds tender, medium to small, pubescent, conical or
    pointed, plump, usually free; blossoms open late; flowers
    seven-eighths inch across, light pink becoming darker along
    the edges; pedicels very short, glabrous, green; calyx-tube
    reddish-green, orange-colored within, campanulate; calyx-lobes
    narrow, acuminate, glabrous within, pubescent without; petals
    ovate; filaments five-sixteenths inch long, equal to the petals
    in length; pistil as long as the stamens, sometimes defective.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; large, round; suture shallow;
    apex a small, acute point; color yellow, blushed and mottled
    with red; skin separates from the pulp; flesh yellow,
    stained red around the pit, juicy, firm but tender, sweet,
    pleasantly flavored; good in quality; stone free, one and
    seven-sixteenths inches long, more than an inch wide, ovate,
    broad at the base, with pitted surfaces; ventral suture very
    deeply grooved at the edges; dorsal suture deeply grooved.


YELLOW RARERIPE

    =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 102. 1831. =2.= Kenrick _Am.
    Orch._ 229. 1832. 3. Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:14, 15. 1832. =4.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 493. 1845. =5.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 280.
    1854. =6.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 80. 1862. =7.= _Mich. Sta.
    Bul._ =169=:229. 1899. =8.= Fulton _Peach Cult._ 193, 194. 1908.

    _Marie Antoinette._ =9.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 187. 1846.

    _Early Orange Peach._ =10.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._
    187. 1846.

    _Cutter's Yellow._ =11.= Hovey _Fr. Am._ =2=:59, 60, Pl. 1851.

    _Rareripe Jaune._ =12.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:215, 216, fig. 106.
    1866-73.

A century ago Yellow Rareripe was at the head of the list of
yellow-fleshed, freestone peaches--largest, handsomest, hardiest and
best-flavored of all. Even now in fruit- and tree-characters, with
the single exception of productiveness, Yellow Rareripe holds its own
very well with the peaches of its type and season. A glance at the
color-plate shows the peach to be as attractive as any in color and
shape; the size is above the average and in texture and flavor it is
not often surpassed. Its fault is unproductiveness, to make up for
which the trees usually bear regularly and come in bearing early. The
variety is now hardly worth planting commercially in New York, being
equalled by several yellow-fleshed peaches in all characters and
surpassed in productiveness by many, but, if the trees can be obtained,
it might find a welcome place in home orchards. Yellow Rareripe seems
still to have all of the vigor and vitality of the first trees, helping
thereby to furnish evidence that varieties do not run out.

This is another American peach the origin of which is involved in so
much uncertainty that it is impossible to state where, when and by
whom produced. Prince claims to have discovered the original Yellow
Rareripe tree near Flushing, New York, over a hundred years ago. It was
being grown in the vicinity of Boston early in the Nineteenth Century
where it seems to have been first introduced by William Kenrick,
Newton, Massachusetts, under the name Yellow Red Rareripe. Occasionally
another and inferior peach, Yellow Melocoton, was substituted for
Yellow Rareripe. Hovey received peach-trees from Kenrick under the
name Cutter's Yellow which later proved to be Yellow Rareripe. Hovey
retained the name Cutter's Yellow, because it was briefer. The Marie
Antoinette, mentioned by Kenrick in 1841, is without question Yellow
Rareripe and has been listed as synonymous by several authors. Yellow
Rareripe was placed in the American Pomological Society's fruit-catalog
in 1862 where it has since remained as a recommended variety.

[Illustration: YELLOW RARERIPE]

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, rather unproductive;
    trunk stocky; branches thick, smooth, reddish-brown mingled
    with light ash-gray; branchlets with internodes of medium
    length, dark pinkish-red tinged with pale green, glossy,
    smooth, glabrous, with conspicuous, numerous, large, raised
    lenticels.

    Leaves six and three-fourths inches long, one and three-fourths
    inches wide, folded upward and curled downward, oval to
    obovate-lanceolate, leathery; upper surface dull, dark
    olive-green, smooth becoming rugose near the midrib; lower
    surface grayish-green; margin finely serrate and sometimes
    in two series, tipped with reddish-brown glands; petiole
    three-eighths inch long, glandless or with one to four small,
    globose glands variable in color and position.

    Flower-buds conical or pointed, pubescent, plump, usually
    appressed; blossoms open in mid-season; flowers seven-eighths
    inch across, light pink but darker along the edges, usually
    single; pedicels short, green; calyx-tube reddish-green,
    orange-colored within, campanulate; calyx-lobes narrow, acute,
    glabrous within, pubescent without; petals oval to ovate,
    shallowly and widely notched towards the base, tapering to
    claws red at the base; filaments three-eighths inch long, equal
    to the petals in length; pistil as long as the stamens.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; two and one-fourth inches
    long, two and three-sixteenths inches wide, round-conic
    to round-cordate, compressed, with unequal halves; cavity
    contracted and wrinkled about the sides, abrupt or flaring;
    suture shallow; apex round or somewhat pointed, with a
    mucronate or mamelon tip; color orange-yellow, with a deep
    red blush, splashed and mottled with red; pubescence thick,
    long, coarse; skin thin, tender, variable in adherence to
    the pulp; flesh yellow, tinged with red near the pit, juicy,
    fine-grained, tender and melting, sweet, pleasantly flavored;
    good to very good in quality; stone free, one and one-fourth
    inches long, seven-eighths inch wide, oval to ovate, bulged
    near the apex, plump, tapering to a short point, with grooved
    and pitted surfaces; ventral suture deeply grooved along the
    edges, furrowed; dorsal suture grooved, winging.




CHAPTER VI

THE MINOR VARIETIES OF PEACHES


    =À Bec.= =1.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =3=:370. 1862. =2.= Hogg
    _Fruit Man._ 212. 1866. =3.= _Pom. France_ =6=:No. II, Pl. II.
    1869.

    _Mignonne à bec._ =4.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:37, 38, fig. 17.
    1866-73.

    _Pourprée à bec._ =5.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186. 1883.

    _Schnabel Pfirsich._ =6.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 414. 1889.


The À Bec peach takes the name from its beak-like apex. It originated
about 1811 at Ecully, Rhône, France, with a M. Lacène. Tree hardy,
vigorous, productive; leaves large; glands globose; flowers large,
rose-colored; fruit very large, roundish, uneven in outline; apex
terminates in a bold, blunt nipple; cavity narrow, deep; skin thin,
tender, lemon-yellow, blushed and dotted with deep crimson where
exposed; flesh white, with a slight tinge of red about the stone,
tender, melting, sweet, aromatic; quality good; stone oval, furrowed,
free; ripens the first half of August.

    =Abbé de Beaumont.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 52. 1876. =2.=
    Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:35, 36 fig. 1879.

This peach originated in Daumeray, France, in the Eighteenth Century
but was not introduced until 1868. Tree vigorous, productive; glands
globose; fruit large, globular; suture a mark; cavity large, deep; skin
heavily pubescent, white, marbled with carmine; flesh white, tinged
with a rose color at the stone, juicy, sprightly; stone ovoid, free;
ripens at the end of July.

    =Abbé Jodoc.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 47, 214. 1876.

    _Abt Jodocus._ =2.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185. 1883.

A fruit of English origin. Flowers rose-colored; leaves glandless;
fruit large, spherical, irregular; skin almost covered with small,
bright red dots; flesh fine; ripens the last of August.

    =Abundance.= =1.= McKay _Cat._ 20. 1913.

This variety as grown on the Station grounds is a type of Alexander.
Introduced about 1907 by W. L. McKay, late proprietor of the Van Dusen
Nurseries, Geneva, New York.

    =Acampo.= =1.= Leonard Coates _Cat._ 6. 1913.

According to Leonard Coates, Morganhill, California, this variety is a
medium early, high-colored yellow peach of good quality; good for table
and drying.

    =Acme.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 161. 1881.

This variety was reported as growing in Texas.

    =Acton Scot.= =1.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 254. 1854. =2.=
    Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:93, 94, fig. 45. 1866-73.

Acton Scot is the result of crossing Noblesse with Red Nutmeg; raised
by Thomas Knight, Downton Castle, England, 1814. Leaves crenate; glands
globose; flowers large, pale rose; fruit small, narrowed and depressed
at the apex; cavity large, deep; skin woolly, pale yellow, blushed,
marbled with deeper red; flesh yellowish-white usually to the stone,
juicy, sugary but slightly bitter; quality medium; pit free, small,
plump; ripens the end of August.

    =Adèle Thirriot.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 47. 1876.

Tree strong, productive; flowers small; glands reniform; fruit very
large, with a purplish blush; first quality; ripens in September.

    =Admirable.= =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:31, 32, Pl.
    XXI. 1768. =2.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =1=:196. 1831. =3.= Leroy
    _Dict. Pom._ =6=:38 fig., 39, 40. 1879.

    _Early Admirable._ =4.= Langley _Pomona_ 103, Pl. 30 fig. 2.
    1729. =5.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 256, 257. 1831. =6.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 477. 1845. =7.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._
    30. 1877. =8.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 442. 1884.

    _Wunderschöner Lackpfirsche._ =9.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:209, 210. 1858.

According to Leroy, Admirable was first mentioned by Lectier in 1628,
probably having originated in France many years previous. Although
not an extremely early peach it was long called Early Admirable to
distinguish it from Late Admirable. The American Pomological Society
listed Admirable in its fruit list in 1877 but dropped it in 1897.
Tree productive; flowers small; glands globose; fruit of medium size,
roundish, pale yellowish-white, with a lively red cheek; flesh white,
red next the pit from which it readily separates, melting, juicy, with
a good, rich, sweet flavor; ripens the first of September or later.

    =Admirable Jaune.= =1.= Noisette _Man. Comp. Jard._ =2=:478.
    1860.

This variety should not be confused with Yellow Admirable described
elsewhere. Variations in the size of the flowers cause writers to
list more than one sort under this name. The peach listed here has
medium-sized flowers and globose glands.

    =Admirable Jaune Tardive.= =1.= Noisette _Man. Comp. Jard._
    =2=:478. 1860.

Tree very vigorous; glands globose; flowers of medium size; fruit
large, elongated, yellow; flesh yellow, slightly vinous; ripens late in
October.

    =Admirable Saint-German.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:42, 43.
    1879.

This peach was obtained from seed by Charles Buisson, Tronche, Isère,
France, in 1863. Tree vigorous; glands small, globose; flowers medium
in size, rose-colored; quality of first rank; ripens early in August.

    =Adrian.= =1.= _Col., O., Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 32. 1892. =2.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:207. 1899.

Adrian originated in Louisiana. Tree vigorous, hardy, spreading,
productive; glands globose; flowers small; fruit medium to large,
roundish-oval; cavity abrupt; suture distinct near the apex; skin clear
yellow, occasionally washed with red; flesh yellow, red at the pit,
juicy, firm, vinous; quality good; pit free, oval, plump; ripens late
in September.

    =Advance.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 147. 1881. =2.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =152=:199. 1898. 3. _Ibid._ =169=:207. 1899.

Advance is a seedling of Hale Early which originated with C. C. Engle,
Paw Paw, Michigan. Tree spreading; glands reniform; flowers small;
fruit medium to large, roundish; cavity deep; skin creamy-white,
largely mottled with red; flesh creamy-white, juicy, tender, sprightly;
quality good; pit semi-clinging; ripens early in August.

    =Aehrenthal.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 386. 1889.

    _Aehrenthal Lackpfirsich._ =2.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:214. 1858.

Originated about 1851. Tree vigorous, productive; glands reniform;
flowers small; fruit large, roundish, slightly oblate; skin
yellowish-white, blushed with lively red which becomes purplish; flesh
white, vinous; stone small, oval; ripens at the end of August.

    =Aiken.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 301. 1890.

Listed as growing in Canada.

    =Ailsworth.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:29. 1910.

Ailsworth is a late, yellow-fleshed peach which originated near Benton
Harbor, Michigan. The fruit as it grows on the Station grounds is not
attractive in color but is pleasantly flavored. Tree vigorous, upright;
leaves long; glands reniform; flowers small; fruit above medium in
size, roundish-cordate; skin heavily pubescent, golden yellow, with a
slightly mottled blush of red; flesh yellow, red at the pit, juicy,
medium coarse, firm, pleasingly subacid; quality good; pit free, oval,
winged; ripens the last week in September.

    =Albatross.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 54. 1876. =2.= Hogg
    _Fruit Man._ 435. 1884. =3.= Bunyard _Fruit Cat._ 35. 1913-14.

Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, grew Albatross from a stone of
Princess of Wales about 1870. Leaves glandless; flowers large; fruit
very large, roundish; suture distinct only at the apex; skin pale
yellow, blushed with crimson and mottled with darker crimson; flesh
white, stained with red at the stone, juicy, melting; ripens the end of
September.

    =Albemarle.= =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 104, Pl. XXXI fig. II. 1729.

Skin yellowish-green overlaid with red; flesh vermilion about the
stone, melting, vinous; ripens the first week in August.

    =Alberge.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 211. 1676. =2.= Coxe _Cult. Fr.
    Trees._ 220. 1817.

    _Purple Alberge._ =3.= Langley _Pomona_ 104, Pl. XXX fig. V.
    1729. =4.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 267. 1831.

    _Yellow Alberge._ =5.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ 1752. =6.= Prince
    _Pom. Man._ =1=:182, 183. 1831. =7.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._
    492, 493. 1845. =8.= _Rural N. Y._ =11=:111. 1860.

    _Gelbe Pfirsche._ =9.= Sickler _Teutsche Obst._ =8=:229-234,
    Tab. 12. 1797.

    _Rother Aprikosenpfirsch._ =10.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:218. 1858.

    _Rossanne._ =11.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:263, 264 fig., 265.
    1879.

    _Safranpfirsch._ =12.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 413. 1889.

Alberge is an old French sort, one of the earliest of the
yellow-fleshed peaches. Probably from this variety have sprung the
Melocotons and Yellow Rareripes of this country. Rossanna, though
very similar to Alberge, differs from it in having reniform glands
and in ripening about two weeks later. In some sections, especially
around Rochester, New York, Alberge is known as Barnard's Rareripe.
The variety was placed on the fruit-list of the American Pomological
Society in 1862 but was dropped in 1891. Tree moderate in growth;
leaves crenate; glands globose; flowers small, rose-colored; fruit
medium in size, nearly globular; suture and cavity deep; skin yellow,
almost entirely covered with deep red or purple; flesh deep yellow, red
near the stone, melting, juicy, vinous; of second quality; pit large,
oval, terminating in a short point, brownish-red, free; ripens in the
middle of August.

    =Albert.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 32. 1883.

    _Early Albert._ =2.= _Gard. Chron._ 1025. 1861. =3.= _Mag.
    Hort._ =29=:53. 1863. =4.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:103, 104, fig.
    50. 1866-73. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 30. 1877.

Albert was raised by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, from a pit
of Grosse Montagne Précoce. The variety appeared on the fruit-list
of the American Pomological Society in 1877 as Early Albert; later it
was changed to Albert and in 1891 was dropped. Tree vigorous, hardy;
glands globose; flowers small; fruit medium in size, roundish, one side
of the suture frequently higher than the other; skin greenish-yellow,
deep crimson where exposed; flesh white, brick-red next to the stone,
tender, melting, aromatic; of first quality; ripens early in August.

    =Albert Late Rareripe.= =1.= _Horticulturist_ N. S. =7=:178.
    1857.

Glands globose; fruit large, globular; skin yellowish-white, marbled
with red; flesh pale white, stained at the pit, very sweet, juicy;
quality very good; ripens early in September.

    =Albert Sidney.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt_. =5=:97. 1892. =2.= _Ga.
    Sta. Bul._ =42=:232. 1898.

    _Johnson._ =3.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:103. 1901.

Albert Sidney was grown from seed received from Japan in 1860 by Judge
Campbell, Pensacola, Florida, and was introduced by P. J. Berckmans,
Augusta, Georgia. Tree tall, spreading; leaves large; glands reniform;
fruit large, oblong, greenish-yellow, blushed with red; flesh white,
stained with red at the stone, juicy, melting; quality good; pit free;
ripens late in July.

    =Albertine Millet.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 48. 1876.

A very early variety with globose glands and rose-colored blossoms.

    =Alberza.= =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 582. 1629.

"The Alberza Peach is late ripe, and of a reasonable good taste."

    =Albright.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 391. 1891. =2.= Lovett
    _Cat._ 25. 1892. =3.= _Rural N. Y._ =52=:430. 1893. =4.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:207. 1899.

Albright originated with a Miss Albright, York, Pennsylvania. Tree
vigorous, upright; glands globose; flowers small; fruit large, faintly
ovate; cavity narrow, deep; skin lightly pubescent, creamy-white,
splashed and washed with red; flesh white, red at the pit, juicy,
melting, vinous; quality good; pit oval, long, free; ripens the middle
of September.

    =Albright Cling I.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 35. 1909.

    _Albright._ =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 97. 1887.

    _Albright October._ =3.= _N. C. Sta. Rpt._ =12=:108. 1889.

    _Albright Winter._ =4.= _Franklin Davis Nur. Cat._ 26. 1901.

This Albright Cling is a white-fleshed peach from North Carolina. The
variety appeared on the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society
in 1899 as Albright but was later changed to Albright Cling. Tree
large, vigorous, upright; leaves large; glands reniform; flowers large;
fruit of medium size, roundish, halves unequal in many; cavity narrow;
skin heavily pubescent, greenish-white, thick, tough; flesh whitish,
meaty, tender, juicy, astringent; quality below fair; stone medium in
size, oval, plump, clinging; ripens late.

    =Albright Cling II.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 318. 1889.

A yellow clingstone grown by a Mr. Albright, Placerville, California.
The fruit is described as larger, more highly colored, and more
productive than Orange Cling. It should not be confused with the white
Albright Cling of the East.

    =Alexandra.= =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 213. 1866. =2.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 597. 1869. =3.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._
    =2=:336. 1903.

    _Alexandra Noblesse._ =4.= _Gard. Mon._ =7=:373. 1865.

    _Noblesse Seedling._ =5.= _Soc. Nat. Hort. France Pom._ 318
    fig., 319. 1904.

This variety was raised many years ago by Thomas Rivers,
Sawbridgeworth, England, from seeds of the old Noblesse, a sort at
one time prominent in the Old World. Curiously enough Alexandra has
been many times confused with Alexander, a variety of American origin
differing from the European sort both in color of skin and in season.
Although of excellent quality Alexandra seems never to have found favor
in America. Tree vigorous, healthy, productive; fruit large, round,
marked with a deep suture; skin covered with a rough pubescence, pale,
without any color except a few clusters of red dots on the side exposed
to the sun; flesh white to the stone, tender, melting, juicy, richly
flavored, vinous, sweet; quality very good; stone large, free; season
the middle of August.

    =Alexandre Dumas.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 408. 1889.

Listed as a clingstone in this reference.

    =Alexiana Cherpin.= =1.= Decaisne _Jard. Fruit._ =7=:Pl.
    1872-75.

Tree vigorous; branches slender; leaves large; glands reniform; flowers
large; fruit large, globular; suture more pronounced near the cavity;
skin heavily pubescent, wine-red becoming violet, marbled, adheres to
the pulp; flesh blood-red, fibrous, melting, aromatic; stone large,
ovoid, free; ripens early in October.

    =Alexis Lepère.= =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 471. 1892. =2.= _Cat. Cong.
    Pom. France_ 84 fig. 1906.

Alexis Lepère, Jr., Montreuil, France, grew this variety from seed
about 1876. Tree vigorous, productive; leaves glandless; flowers small;
fruit large, roundish, faintly conic; skin greenish-yellow, marbled
with carmine; flesh white, tinged with red about the stone, fine,
melting, juicy, aromatic; quality very good; stone free; ripens the
last of August.

    =Alger Winter.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 297. 1875.

A yellow, freestone peach which ripens late and keeps long.

    =Algerine.= =1.= _Peachland Nur. Cat._ 12. 1892.

The catalog of the Peachland Nurseries, Seaford, Delaware, describes
this variety as a large, yellow-fleshed, clingstone peach.

    =Alice.= =1.= Munson _Cat._ 6. 1898-99. =2.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._
    =13=:90. 1901.

    _Alice Haupt._ =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 152. 1883.

Alice is a white-fleshed, freestone seedling of Chinese Cling raised by
William W. Haupt, Kyle, Texas.

    =Alice Free.= =1.= _Green River Nur. Cat._ 14. 1899.

The catalog of the Green River Nurseries, Bowling Green, Kentucky,
states that J. W. Shalcross, Louisville, Kentucky, first grew Alice
Free. Fruit very large; skin white, red where exposed; quality good;
ripens late in October.

    =Alida.= =1.= _Horticulturist_ =22=:45 fig. 1867. =2.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 597. 1869.

Alida originated with Charles Carpenter, Kelly Island, Ohio, and is
probably a seedling of Late Crawford. Fruit large, round; skin blushed
with dark red; flesh yellow, juicy; quality good; ripens in September.

    =Allen I.= =1.= _Cultivator_ N. S. =1=:352. 1844. =2.= Hooper
    _W. Fr. Book_ 212. 1857.

Allen I reproduces itself from seed, having been so grown for a number
of years by a community of Allens in Walpole, Massachusetts. The
variety was put on the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society
in 1901. Tree hardy, productive; leaves with globose glands; flowers
small; fruit small, roundish, blushed with red; flesh white, juicy,
vinous; stone free; ripens in September.

    =Allen II.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 113. 1880.

This is an early seedling raised by A. T. Allen, Willoughby, Ohio.

    =Allen October.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 26. 1873. =2.= Waugh
    _Am. Peach Orch._ 198. 1913.

This variety originated in Missouri and appears on the fruit-list of
the American Pomological Society from 1873 to 1899. Fruit of medium
size, round, yellow, blushed with red; flesh yellow, red at the pit;
quality poor; freestone; ripens late.

    =Allman Cling.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 167. 1871.

Allman Cling is recommended for the vicinity of Centralia, Illinois.

    =Almond.= =1.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 243, 244. 1831.

    _Mandel-Pfirsiche._ =2.= Sickler _Teutsche Obst._ =12=:260-264,
    Tab. 14. 1799.

    _Amandier-Pêcher._ =3.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 102, 103. 1867.

Externally Almond resembles the almond but the characters of the
flesh and stone are those of the peach. The variety was raised by T.
A. Knight, Downton Castle, England, from a seed of the sweet almond
which had been fertilized by a peach. Tree vigorous, bearing glandless
leaves which are doubly serrate; fruit medium in size, roundish, with a
slight suture; apex somewhat depressed; skin heavily pubescent, yellow,
marbled with pale red in the sun; flesh pale yellow, bright red next
the pit which is free, very juicy, melting, with a good flavor; season
the middle of September.

    =Alpha I.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 114. 1880.

Alpha is thought to be a cross between Early Rivers and Foster, raised
by T. V. Munson, Denison, Texas. The fruit ripens before Alexander
which it resembles very closely.

    =Alpha II.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 166. 1895. =2.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:207. 1899.

Tree moderately vigorous, not very productive, roundish, upright;
glands reniform; flowers small; fruit rather large, roundish, slightly
compressed toward the suture which is indistinct; skin rich, clear
yellow, much overspread with dark red; flesh yellow, firm, juicy,
nearly sweet; quality good; pit large, oval, plump, adherent; ripens
the middle of September.

    =Alpha III.= =1.= Wood _Cat._ 7 fig. 1910.

A few years ago Allen Wood, Rochester, New York, introduced a
white-fleshed variety under the name Alpha but it was so similar to
Champion that its propagation was discontinued.

    =Alto Pass.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 53, 207. 1896.

This is a medium-sized, leather-colored peach under test in Illinois;
flesh lemon-yellow; of good quality; freestone.

    =Amande Douce.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 48. 1876.

Listed without a description.

    =Ambrosia.= =1.= _Continental Pl. Cat._ 14. 1913.

This variety is said by the Continental Plant Company, Kittrell, North
Carolina, to be a productive, attractive fruit with tender, melting
flesh of high flavor, ripening in July.

    =Amelia I.= =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:241, 242, fig. 119.
    1866-73. =2.= _Gard. Mon._ =10=:126. 1868. =3.= Downing _Fr.
    Trees Am._ 598. 1869. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 18. 1871. =5.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:207. 1899.

This peach originated many years ago with a Mr. Stroman, Orangeburg,
South Carolina. Tree moderately productive, vigorous; glands reniform;
fruit large, roundish-oblong, with a large, deep suture extending
nearly around the fruit; skin pale whitish-yellow, shaded and marbled
with a crimson blush; flesh creamy-white, juicy, melting, sweet, rich,
vinous; quality good; pit free; ripens the last of August.

    =Amelia II.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =10=:22. 1868. =2.= Downing _Fr.
    Trees Am._ 598. 1869. =3.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:809. 1896.

    _Pavie Amelia._ =4.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:211 fig., 212. 1879.

This variety, which originated in 1850 with George Husman, Hermann,
Missouri, is supposed to be a seedling of Columbia. It has frequently
been confused with the Amelia from South Carolina. Tree vigorous,
healthy; fruit large, round; suture distinct; apex roundish; color
clear, rich yellow, marbled with dull red; flesh yellow, firm, juicy,
sweet or pleasantly subacid; stone large, free; season the last of
September.

    =Ameliaberta.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 32. 1899. =2.= _Del.
    Sta. Rpt._ =13=:90. 1901.

Ameliaberta is a cross between Amelia II and Elberta. The variety
has little or no value in this State. It originated with J. H.
Jones, Herndon, Georgia, and was introduced in 1893. In 1899, it was
given a place in the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society
where it remained until 1909. On the Station grounds the fruit
ripens with Elberta and does not equal that variety. Tree vigorous,
upright-spreading; leaves oval to obovate-lanceolate, usually with
reniform glands; flowers appear late; fruit large, roundish; suture
shallow, deeper at the apex; skin yellow, washed and splashed with
crimson; flesh yellow, with red radiating from the pit, stringy, juicy,
sprightly; quality good; stone free, large, broadly oval; ripens the
first half of September.

    =American Apricot.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:219.
    1858. =2.= _Gard. Mon._ =29=:306 fig. 1887. =3.= _Mich. Sta.
    Bul._ =169=:207. 1899.

    _Jaune d'Amerique?_ =4.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:176. 1883.

    _Northern Apricot._ =5.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =129=:26. 1896.

This variety, a seedling from South Carolina, as grown on the Station
grounds is of the Crawford type, rather late in ripening and only fair
in quality.

    =American Pound.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =7=:372. 1865.

A name applied to a large, American variety introduced into New Zealand.

    =Ammirabile Belga.= =1.= _Gard. Chron._ 907. 1858.

An Italian peach exhibited at the Imperial and Royal Horticultural
Society of Tuscany, Italy, in 1858.

    =Amsden.= =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 437. 1884. =2.= _Rev. Hort._
    506, 507, 508. 1893. =3.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 85 fig. 1906.

    _Amsden June._ =4.= _Cult. & Count. Gent._ =39=:472, 486. 1874.
    =5.= _Gard. Mon._ =16=:278. 1874. =6.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._
    2nd App. 141. 1876. =7.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 28. 1877.

Amsden grew from a seed planted in 1868 by L. C. Amsden, Carthage,
Missouri. It first fruited in 1872; in 1877 the American Pomological
Society added the variety to its fruit-list but dropped it in 1891.
Tree vigorous, productive; glands globose; fruit of medium size,
roundish, slightly compressed, with a broad, shallow suture extending
beyond the depressed apex; skin greenish-white, nearly covered with
light and dark red, nearly purple in the sun; flesh greenish-white
throughout, tender, juicy, sweet, slightly vinous; quality good; stone
small, nearly free when mature; season the last of June or early in
July.

    =Amsden Pine.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 416. 1899.

Listed as growing in Canada.

    =Ananiel.= =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:187, 188, fig. 92, 1866-73.
    =2.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 45, 215. 1876.

Ananiel originated near Tournay, Belgium. Glands globose; flowers
small, rose-colored; fruit large, irregular, spherical, truncated at
the base; skin whitish-yellow, more or less covered with purple at
maturity; flesh pale, purplish near the stone, melting, very juicy;
quality good; stone terminating in a long point, free; ripens the last
of September.

    =André Leroy.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 387. 1889.

Listed but not described.

    =Andrews.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:29. 1895.

    _Andrews Mammoth._ =2.= _Ibid._ =31=:58. 1887.

Listed as growing in Michigan.

    =Angel.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 44. 1891. =2.= _Tex. Sta.
    Bul._ =39=:818 fig. 1896. =3.= _Fla. Sta. Bul._ =62=:509, 510,
    519. 1902. =4.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:336, 337.
    1903. =5.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._ =156=:132. 1911. =6.= Waugh _Am.
    Peach Orch._ 198. 1913.

Angel was grown from a Peento seed by Peter C. Minnich, Waldo, Florida,
about thirty years ago. G. L. Taber, Glen Saint Mary, Florida, bought
the original tree and introduced the variety in 1889. The American
Pomological Society added Angel to its fruit-list in 1891. Tree open,
productive; fruit small, roundish; suture shallow, short; apex blunt or
very slightly tipped; skin light creamy-white, tinted and washed with
attractive red; flesh white, reddish near the pit, firm, juicy, with
a slightly acid, agreeable flavor; quality good; pit free; season the
middle of June to the first of July in Florida.

    =Angelle Lafond.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 48. 1876.

Listed as a large and beautiful variety with reniform glands.

    =Angers Large Purple.= =1.= _Horticulturist_ N. S. =5=:70. 1855.

Said to be one of the largest and finest of peaches; ripens with
Chancellor.

    =Anna Ruffin.= =1.= Van Lindley _Cat._ 19. 1892.

Listed without description in the catalog of J. Van Lindley, Pomona,
North Carolina.

    =Anne.= =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 100. 1729. =2.= Forsyth _Treat.
    Fr. Trees_ 27. 1803.

    _Early Anne._ =3.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 246, 247. 1831.

    _Green Nutmeg._ =4.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:23. 1832.

Anne is an old English sort which for many years was the earliest of
all peaches. The variety was named in honor of Mrs. Anne Dunch Anne
Dunch, Pusey, Berkshire, England. Tree not very vigorous; leaves doubly
serrated, glandless; flowers large, nearly white; fruit roundish,
medium in size; skin white, blush often lacking; flesh soft, melting,
white to the stone, sugary; stone free; ripens very early.

    =Annie Laurie.= =1.= Smith Brothers _Cat._ 16. 1899.

It is stated in the catalog of Smith Brothers, Concord, Georgia, that
this variety has been in cultivation fifty years and comes true from
seed. Fruit of medium size, bright red; flesh tender, sweet, juicy;
quality best.

    =Annie Trice.= =1.= _Green River Nur. Cat._ 13. 1899.

According to the catalog of the Green River Nurseries, Bowling Green,
Kentucky, Annie Trice originated some forty years ago in Hopkinsville,
Kentucky. It is an early peach of the Hale Early type.

    =Annie Wylie.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 41. 1877. =2.= _Ala.
    Sta. Bul._ =11=:6. 1890.

Annie Wylie originated at Chester, South Carolina. Fruit large; skin
white, with a red blush; flesh white, red at the pit, fine-grained,
melting, vinous; quality very good; clingstone; ripens early in
September in South Carolina.

    =Antleys.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:90. 1901.

P. J. Berckmans, Augusta, Georgia, found this variety on the farm of a
Mr. Antleys, Blackville, South Carolina. It is a very large and almost
white Chinese Cling.

    =Apex.= =1.= Weber & Sons _Cat._ 11. 1912.

The catalog of Weber and Sons, Nursery, Missouri, states that Apex
ripens with Alexander but is superior to it in size, color and flavor;
skin yellow, mottled with red; flesh yellow; stone adherent.

    =Arctic.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =12=:156. 1870. =2.= _Mich. Sta.
    Bul._ =169=:208. 1899. =3.= _Rural N. Y._ =59=:705. 1900.

This is a hardy seedling said to have been introduced from the Isle
of Man. Tree vigorous, not very productive, upright; leaves partially
folded, with reniform glands; fruit medium in size, roundish-ovate;
cavity rather broad; apex sunken; skin light yellow; flesh pale yellow,
red at the pit, not very juicy, mild; quality fair; stone free, oval,
plump; ripens early in October.

    =Aremie.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 598. 1869.

Aremie is a large, high-flavored, yellow-fleshed clingstone which
originated in Pomaria, South Carolina. Fruit ripens in early August.

    =Arietta.= =1.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._ =47=:11. 1893.

This is a freestone peach resembling Stump; ripens the end of July in
Alabama.

    =Arkansas.= =1.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:337. 1903.

    _Arkansas Traveler._ =2.= _Mass. (Hatch) Sta. Bul._ =2=:14.
    1888. =3.= Harrison & Sons _Cat._ 16. 1904.

Arkansas as it fruits at this Station resembles Alexander very closely
in season, size and shape. It is distinct, however, being a seedling
of Amsden. Like all other early, white-fleshed peaches it rots badly.
Tree vigorous, hardy, moderately productive; leaves large; glands
globose; flowers large, pale pink; fruit about two inches in diameter,
roundish-truncate; apex mucronate; skin thick, tough, covered with
short pubescence, creamy-white, blushed with dark red, with few stripes
and splashes; flesh white, stringy, juicy, sweet; quality fair; stone
semi-free to free, oval, very plump; ripens the last week of July.

    =Arlington.= =1.= _Cal. Sta. Rpt._ 408. 1892-93.

    _Early Arlington._ =2.= _Fla. Sta. Bul._ =62=:512. 1902.

Listed as belonging to the Peento type.

    =Arthur Chevreau.= =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 103. 1901.

Arthur Chevreau, Montreuil, France, grew this variety from a seed of
Bonouvrier. Tree vigorous, productive; glands globose; flowers small;
fruit large, round; suture pronounced; cavity deep, large; flesh
whitish-yellow, juicy, sugary, acidulated; stone large, free; ripens
early in September.

    =Artz.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 25. 1894.

This is a large, handsome clingstone grown near Georgetown, District of
Columbia. Fruit roundish-oval; cavity deep, abrupt; apex terminates in
a mamelon tip; skin thin, tough, pubescent, creamy-white, blushed and
marbled with crimson; flesh white, tinged with red about the pit, firm,
juicy, mild subacid, sprightly; quality very good; stone oval.

    =Asa Meek Seedling.= =1.= J. R. Johnson _Cat._ 5. 1894.

According to J. R. Johnson, Coshocton, Ohio, this is a seedling very
closely resembling Globe.

    =Ashby Early.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 111. 1880. =2.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 32. 1883.

This variety, raised by G. W. Ashby, Charrute, Kansas, is said to be
earlier and better than Amsden. In 1883 it was placed on the fruit-list
of the American Pomological Society where it remained until 1891.

    =Astor.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =6=:414. 1826. =2.=
    Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 183. 1846.

Astor was found by Michael Floy in the yard of a Mr. Astor, New York
City, about 1820. Tree large, thrifty, productive; leaves broad, deeply
serrated, with globose glands; flowers medium in size; fruit large,
oblate; cavity deep; suture divides the fruit; skin pale yellow, with
a deep red cheek; flesh melting, whitish-yellow, faintly red at the
stone, very juicy, high in quality; stone small, roundish, free; ripens
the last of August.

    =Athenian Cling.= =1.= _Horticulturist_ N. S. =7=:180. 1857.

Fruit very large, oblong, depressed at the apex; suture a mere line;
skin very downy, yellowish-white, marbled with dull red in the sun;
flesh pale red at the pit, firm, rich, vinous; quality good; ripens in
October.

    =Athens.= =1.= _New Haven Nur. Cat._ 6. 1901-02.

This variety is briefly described in the catalog of the New Haven
Nurseries, New Haven, Missouri. Athens on the Station grounds is a
light bearer of fruit fair in quality. Tree vigorous; leaves thin;
glands globose; fruit oval-cordate, about two and one-fourth inches
high, halves unequal; suture shallow, deepening toward the apex;
skin tough, golden yellow, with a lively red blush and a few darker
splashes; flesh yellow, meaty, rather coarse, sweet; quality fair;
stone clings, oval, noticeably bulged near the apex; ripens the second
half of September.

    =Atlanta.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 1st App. 120. 1872.

As fruited on the Station grounds, Atlanta does not appear valuable for
any purpose. The variety was raised by Dr. E. W. Sylvester, Lyons, New
York. Tree vigorous; glands reniform; fruit of medium size, roundish;
suture large, distinct; cavity deep; skin greenish-white, blushed with
deep red; flesh white, usually stained with red at the stone, soft,
juicy; stone nearly free; ripens the last of August.

    =Atwater.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 281. 1854.

This is a variety of American origin closely resembling President.

    =Atwood.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 598. 1869.

Atwood is a large, productive clingstone originating with Roscius
Atwood, Newberry, South Carolina.

    =Augbert.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Yearbook_ 447, 448, Pl. 44. 1908.
    =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 35. 1909.

Augbert as it fruits on the Station grounds is a disappointment in
productiveness and in quality of fruit. It originated with Joel Boon,
Lindale, Texas, about 1897, from a seed of Elberta, thought to have
been fertilized with Salwey. In 1906 the name Augbert was registered
as a trade-mark. In 1909 the variety was put on the fruit-list of the
American Pomological Society. Tree vigorous; glands reniform; flowers
medium in size; fruit large, oval, slightly cordate; cavity abrupt,
medium to deep, often marked with red; apex terminates in a noticeable
mamelon tip; skin thin, tough, finely pubescent, light golden, with a
few carmine splashes on a lighter red cheek; flesh yellow, stained with
red at the pit, tender, fine-grained, juicy, vinous; stone large, oval,
pointed at the ends, plump; ripens just before Salwey.

    =Augusta.= =1.= Ramsey _Cat._ 8. 1909.

F. T. Ramsey and Son, Austin, Texas, state that Augusta is a large,
yellow, freestone seedling of Elberta ripening a month later than its
parent.

    =Auguste Fau Jaune.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 408. 1889.

Listed by Mathieu as a clingstone.

    =Aurora.= =1.= Bailey _Ann. Hort._ 184. 1892.

This variety was introduced by J. H. Jones, Herndon, Georgia, as a
cross between Chinese Cling and Mary Choice. Fruit very large, creamy,
with a dark cheek; freestone; ripens early in July.

    =Austin.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 44. 1891.

    _Austins Late Red._ =2.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 292. 1859. =3.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 598. 1869. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._
    28. 1875.

    _Austin Cling._ =5.= _Okla. Sta. Bul._ =2=:14. 1892.

The cultivation of Austin is confined to the South. It first appeared
on the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society in 1872; later
it was listed as Austin Late and finally as Austin in 1891 in which
year it was dropped from the list. Glands reniform; flowers large;
fruit large, oblong; color white, with a red cheek; flesh white, juicy,
vinous; clingstone.

    =Australian Saucer.= =1.= _Oregon Nur. Cat._ 28. 1903.

According to the catalog of the Oregon Nursery Company, Orenco, Oregon,
this variety is one of the Peento peaches and takes its name from its
flat appearance, one side being hollowed like a saucer. Skin white,
with a crimson blush; flesh white, sweet; pit very small, almost round.

    =Avant-Pêche Jaune.= =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:9, 10.
    1768. =2.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:48, 49 fig. 1879.

    _Gelbe Frühpfirsche._ =3.= Liegel _Anweisung_ 69. 1822.

    _Early Yellow Alberge._ =4.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =1=:183, 184.
    1831.

    _Früher Aprikosenpfirsich._ =5.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:218. 1858.

According to Leroy, this variety was mentioned as early as the
Fourteenth Century. It has been much confused with Avant-Pêche Blanche.
Tree vigorous; glands reniform; flowers large; fruit medium in size,
roundish; cavity deep; apex mamelon; skin thin, heavily pubescent,
golden-yellow, mottled with dark brownish-red; flesh firm, yellow,
carmine at the stone, juicy, sweet, aromatic; stone small, roundish,
plump, strongly sutured, free; ripens the middle of July.

    =Avant-Précoce.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:157, 158, fig. 15.
    1883.

Glands reniform; flowers medium in size; fruit small to medium, nearly
round; apex mucronate; suture deep; cavity narrow, small; skin firm,
thin, heavily pubescent, whitish-yellow, purple where exposed; flesh
white, stained with red at the stone, firm, sugary, juicy, aromatic;
stone small, oval; ripens late in July.

    =Avant-Précoce Pavie.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185. 1883.

Listed but not described.

    =Avocat Collignon.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 387. 1889.

Listed but not described.

    =Azoo Cling.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:34. 1889.

Listed as growing in Texas.

    =Babcock.= =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =15=:289. 1897.

Grown at one time on the Station grounds.

    =Bagby Large.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 293. 1859.

The tree of Bagby Large has a peculiar, slender, drooping growth. The
fruit, which is esteemed for drying, is oblong, white and juicy; ripens
the middle of August.

    =Bailey.= =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 244. 1893. =2.= _Ibid._
    417, 418. 1898. =3.= _Ibid._ 89, 90. 1899. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 35. 1909.

    _Friday Seedling._ =5.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 373, 377. 1896.

    _Cedar County Hardy._ =6.= _Ibid._ 373. 1896.

Bailey is a very hardy peach grown in southeastern Iowa. It was
named after Dr. Bailey, West Branch, Iowa, who grew the variety most
extensively. In Scott County, it is known as Friday seedling, after
its originator, Jacob Friday. The variety was listed by the American
Pomological Society in 1909. Bailey reproduces itself from seed and
has been distributed throughout Iowa by this means, which accounts for
the differences that appear in different localities. The variety as
it grows on the Station grounds is very susceptible to mildew; leaves
deeply serrated, glandless; fruit small, white; freestone; worthless
for New York.

    =Baker Cling.= =1.= _Del Sta. Rpt._ =5=:97. 1892.

Listed in this reference.

    =Baker Early.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 161. 1881.

    _Baker Early May._ =2.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 50. 1879.

A very early freestone of southern origin which resembles Hale Early.

    =Baldwin.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 44. 1891.

    _Baldwin October Free._ =2.= _U. S. Pat. Off. Rpt._ 279. 1854.

    _Baldwin Late._ =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 18. 1871. =4.= _Ga.
    Sta. Bul._ =42=:233. 1898.

Baldwin originated with Dr. William Baldwin, Montgomery, Alabama. It
became popular because of its late ripening and splendid keeping
qualities and gained a place on the fruit-list of the American
Pomological Society in 1871, which it held until 1897. Leaves large;
glands reniform; fruit medium in size, greenish-white; flesh white,
stained at the stone; quality fair; stone free, small.

    =Baltet.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 48. 1876. =2.= _Cat. Cong.
    Pom. France_ 86 fig. 1906.

M. Baltet, Troyes, Aube, France, originated this variety about 1866.
Leaves glandless; flowers medium in size; fruit large, roundish-oval,
with a mamelon tip at the apex; skin creamy-white, reddish-purple
where exposed; flesh tinged with red, deeper about the stone; quality
excellent; stone elongated, with pointed apex; ripens early in October.

    =Baltimore Beauty.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 490. 1845.

Leaves with globose glands; flowers large; fruit small, roundish-oval;
color deep orange, with a brilliant red cheek; flesh yellow, red at the
stone, sweet; ripens early in August.

    =Baltimore Rose.= =1.= _Ohio Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 9. 1857.

Very similar to Oldmixon Cling.

    =Bandel.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 279. 1882. =2.= _Ibid._
    197. 1883.

This variety, grown from seed by a Mr. Bandel, Saugatuck, Michigan,
closely resembles Early Crawford but ripens five days earlier.

    =Banner.= =1.= _Ont. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:107. 1898. =2.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 32. 1899. =3.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 107. 1903.

Banner originated in Essex County, Canada, about 1880. At Geneva, the
fruit is small, fair in quality and the tree an uncertain yielder.
In 1899 it was added to the fruit-list of the American Pomological
Society. Tree large, vigorous; leaves thin; glands reniform; flowers
small, pink; fruit small to above, roundish, slightly cordate; apex
rounded, with a mamelon tip; skin tough, with short, fine pubescence,
deep yellow, mottled with deep red; flesh yellow, stained with red at
the pit, moderately juicy, meaty, mild; quality fair; stone broadly
oval, slightly flattened, deeply grooved; ripens about a week after the
Elberta.

    =Barber.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =104=:88. 1893. =2.= _Ibid._
    =118=:32. 1895. =3.= _Ibid._ =152=:200. 1898.

    _Hinman._ =4.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:98. 1892.

Barber is thought to have originated in Allegan County, Michigan. The
trees at Geneva are not productive and the fruits are only fair in
quality. Tree upright, slightly spreading, vigorous; glands usually
reniform; flowers small; fruit large, roundish-oval, halves noticeably
unequal; cavity wide, flaring; suture enlarged on one side; apex
prominent, with a recurved, mamelon tip; skin tough, thickly pubescent,
lemon-yellow, with a dull carmine blush giving a bronze effect; flesh
yellow, tinged with red at the stone, melting, mild subacid, lacks
character; stone oval, dull brown, free; ripens the middle of September.

    =Barcelona Yellow Clingstone.= =1.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_
    17. 1820.

A large clingstone ripening in October.

    =Barker No. 13.= =1.= _Kan. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 50. 1901.

This is a descendant of Golden Rareripe which originated with F. G.
Barker, Salina, Kansas. Fruit large, downy, yellow, coarse.

    =Barnard.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 281. 1854. =2.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 78. 1862. =3.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 32. 1874.
    =4.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:337. 1903.

    _Early Barnard._ =5.= _Mag. Hort._ =14=:538. 1848. =6.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:212. 1896.

Barnard, once a favorite in Michigan, is a seedling of Alberge and
is often confused with Yellow Alberge and Yellow Rareripe, all being
similar to Alberge. The variety has held a place in the American
Pomological Society's fruit-list since 1862. Tree vigorous, productive,
slightly spreading; glands reniform; fruit large, roundish, with a
distinct suture; apex small; skin yellow, nearly covered with dark
purplish-red; flesh deep yellow, red at the pit, juicy, tender, rich;
quality good; stone free; season the last of August.

    =Barnes.= =1.= Munson _Cat._ 6. 1893. =2.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._
    =39=:809. 1896.

Barnes originated in Bell County, Texas, with a Mr. Barnes Parker. Tree
vigorous; fruit medium in size, yellow; flesh firm, subacid; clingstone.

    =Baron Ackenthal.= =1.= _Guide Prat._ 40. 1895.

An Austrian variety with globose glands.

    =Baron Dufour.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 39, 215. 1876. =2.=
    Lauche _Ergänzungsband_ 697 fig., 698. 1883.

This sort was found by Baron Dufour in his gardens at Metz, Germany;
it is called by some Grosse Magdalene von Metz. In 1872 it was
introduced as Baron Dufour. Tree vigorous, productive; glands globose;
fruit large, roundish; suture shallow; cavity wide, shallow; skin
greenish-yellow, dark brownish-red in the sun; flesh clear yellow,
tinged with red at the stone, juicy, melting, aromatic; stone large,
oval, roundish at the base; ripens the last of August.

    =Baron Pears.= =1.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 81. 1867.

This variety was grown from seed by Baron Pears, Oostcamp, near Bruges,
Belgium. Tree vigorous; leaves glandless; flowers large; fruit large,
oblate, strongly sutured; skin pale yellow, striped with red where
exposed; flesh white, tinged with red at the stone, firm, juicy,
aromatic; stone free, bluntly oval; ripens the last of September.

    =Baronne de Brivazac.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 387. 1889.

Listed in the reference given.

    =Barr Early.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Bul._ =14=:6. 1891. =2.= _Ibid._
    =62=:510. 1902.

A seedling of Peento which originated with Colonel John Barr, Micanopy,
Florida. Fruit medium in size, showy; semi-cling; matures a week later
than Peento.

    =Barr Late.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Bul._ =14=:6. 1891. =2.= _Ibid._
    =62=:510. 1902.

This is another of Colonel Barr's seedlings; it resembles Barr Early
but matures two weeks later. Neither variety is planted commercially.

    =Barrington.= =1.= Brookshaw _Pom. Brit._ =1=:Pl. 23. 1817.
    =2.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 255. 1831. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 78. 1862.

    _Buckingham Mignonne._ =4.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 226. 1832.

    _Barringtoner Lieblingspfirsich._ =5.= Dochnahl _Führ.
    Obstkunde_ =3=:205, 206. 1838.

A Mr. Barrington, Burwood, Surrey, England, grew this variety about
1800. Barrington was entered on the fruit-list of the American
Pomological Society in 1862 but remained there only a few years. Tree
hardy, prolific; glands globose; flowers large; fruit large, roundish,
somewhat elongated; skin pale yellowish, with crimson stripes and
mottlings; flesh yellowish-white, tinged with red at the stone,
melting, juicy; stone free; ripens late in September.

    =Batchelder.= =1.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 196. 1849.

Batchelder originated in Haverhill, Massachusetts, with William
Batchelder; it is said to reproduce itself from seed. Fruit large,
round, white, with a deep blush; flesh white, melting, juicy, vinous;
ripens the last of September.

    =Baugh.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 608. 1857.

Leaves with reniform glands; fruit medium in size, roundish; suture
obscure; apex with a mucronate tip; skin pale yellow, with a slight
blush towards the sun; flesh yellowish-white, melting, juicy, sweet;
freestone; ripens the first of October.

    =Baxter Cling.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 314. 1889.

Wickson says this is a good cling similar to Orange Cling but earlier.
It originated in Placer County, California, with William Baxter.

    =Bayne Favorite.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 183. 1841.

Introduced by a Dr. Bayne, Alexandria, Virginia, about 1843. Tree
productive; fruit very large, oval, pointed; color pale yellow, pale
red in the sun; flesh yellow, melting, juicy; freestone; ripens with
Anne.

    =Bayne New Heath.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 196. 1841.

This is another of Dr. Bayne's seedlings which is said to be superior
to Heath Cling with which it ripens.

    =Bealmear Cling.= =1.= J. R. Johnson _Cat._ 5. 1894.

J. R. Johnson, Coshocton, Ohio, states that this variety is a
yellow-fleshed seedling raised some years ago by a Dr. Bealmear,
Nashport, Ohio. Tree strong, willowy; fruit large, oblong, juicy,
sweet, clingstone; ripens the third week in September.

    =Bear Early.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 93. 1831.

Listed in this reference.

    =Bear Late.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:63. 1900.

Listed as a strong grower in Canada.

    =Beatrice.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =13=:279. 1871. =2.= _Tex.
    Sta. Bul._ =39=:809. 1896. =3.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._
    =2=:337. 1903.

    _Early Beatrice._ =4.= _Gard. Chron._ 1323. 1872. =5.= _Gard.
    Mon._ =15=:315, 339, 340. 1873. =6.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 28.
    1875. =7.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 443, 444. 1884.

This peach is a seedling of Rivers White Nectarine and was raised many
years ago by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England. The American
Pomological Society added Beatrice to its fruit-list in 1875 but
dropped it in 1891. Fruit small to medium, round, a little pointed at
the apex, marked on one side by a distinct suture; skin yellowish,
almost covered with patches of bright red; flesh pale yellowish-white,
melting, juicy, richly flavored, slightly adherent to the pit; season
remarkably early, ripening in England in July.

    =Beauchamp.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:809. 1896.

Tree rather weak in growth, unproductive; fruit medium in size, round,
yellow, with a red cheek; flesh yellow, firm, mild acid; quality fair;
freestone; ripens the latter part of August.

    =Beauté de la Saulsaie.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 51. 1876.

A glandless variety of doubtful merit.

    =Beauty of Salisbury.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 290. 1854.

A foreign, freestone variety subject to mildew; fruit large, roundish,
yellowish-white, blushed with red; ripens in September.

    =Beaver No. 2.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 45. 1897.

Fruit roundish, above medium in size; skin thin, white, washed and
splashed with red; pubescence short; flesh white, purplish at the
stone, mild subacid; quality very good; stone free; ripens early in
August.

    =Beckwith Early.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 50. 1879.

Beckwith Early is a large, early clingstone raised by a Mr. Beckwith,
Olathe, Kansas.

    =Beckworth.= =1.= _Cultivator_ 3rd Ser. =1=:155. 1853.

A hardy, prolific seedling, immune to mildew, raised by Dr. Beckworth,
Oswego, New York; flesh yellow; pit small; ripens the first of
September.

    =Becquett Late.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:810. 1896.

This variety may be identical with Bequette Free. Tree vigorous,
productive; fruit medium to small, oval, light yellow, subacid; quality
good; freestone; season late in Texas.

    =Beer Late White Cling.= =1.= _N. J. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 42. 1878.

This variety originated with Samuel Beer, Keyport, New Jersey. Fruit
large, rich, fine for brandying; ripens about the middle of October.

    =Beers Late.= =1.= Lovett _Cat._ 36. 1890.

    _Beers Melcatoon._ =2.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 184. 1898.

    _Beers Late Melocoton._ =3.= _Okla. Sta. Bul._ =2=:14. 1892.

Beers Late is a seedling of Late Crawford with which it ripens. Tree
strong; fruit rather large, yellow, more or less red.

    =Beers Late Red Rareripe.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 191. 1841.

    _Beers Red Rareripe._ =2.= Bridgeman _Gard. Ass't_ =Pt. 3=:105.
    1857.

Joseph Beers, Middletown, New Jersey, first grew this peach. Fruit very
large, oblong; skin nearly white, red where exposed; flesh firm, juicy,
high in quality; ripens the last of September.

    =Beers Smock.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 28. 1875. =2.= _Mich.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 299. 1875. =3.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._
    =2=:337. 1903. =4.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 198. 1913.

    _Beer._ =5.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:815. 1896.

Beers Smock and Smock are identical as grown at this Station.
Pomological authorities now very generally agree that the two names
have been given the same fruit. For a description of Beers Smock see
Smock.

    =Bell Favorite.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:208. 1899.

Tree fairly vigorous, upright, medium productive; glands globose;
flowers small; fruit large, oval, tapering; skin light yellow, with
a small blush of red, lightly pubescent; flesh yellow, stained with
red at the pit, juicy, vinous; quality fair; pit nearly free; season
towards the end of September.

    =Bell October.= =1.= _Kan. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 38. 1902-03. =2.=
    Munson _Cat._ 7. 1904-05.

Bell October is a large, yellow peach of fine flavor ripening after
Salwey and often keeping until November. It originated in Denton
County, Texas.

    =Belle de Bade.= =1.= _Guide Prat._ 42. 1895.

Fruit very large, yellow; glands globose; flesh firm, sweet, aromatic;
matures in September.

    =Belle de Beaucaire.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 94. 1831.
    =2.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 290. 1854. =3.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._
    =6=:52, 53 fig. 1879.

This variety originated near Beaucaire, Gard, France. Glands small,
globose; flowers small; fruit large, roundish; cavity narrow, deep;
apex with a mamelon tip; skin greenish-yellow, spotted with carmine
in the sun; flesh greenish-white, red at the stone, firm, juicy,
pleasingly acidulated; stone free, brown; ripens the last of August.

    =Belle Beausse.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:54 fig., 55, 56.
    1879.

    _Belle Beauce._ =2.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 212. 1832.

    _Belle Bausse._ =3.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:11, 12. 1832. =4.=
    Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:163, 164, fig. 80. 1866-73. =5.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 599. 1869.

    _Belle-Bauce._ =6.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=:No. 15, Pl. 1846.

    _Schöne von Beauce._ =7.= Dochnahl _Führ. Okstkunde_ =3=:202,
    203, 1858.

This variety was raised long ago by Joseph Beausse, Montreuil, Bellay,
France. Because of its close resemblance to Grosse Mignonne the two
have often been confused. Fruit large, somewhat flattened at the base
and apex, with a distinct suture; skin thin, with fine pubescence,
greenish-yellow, highly colored with deep red; flesh white, tinged
with red around the pit, juicy, tender, melting, vinous; quality good;
freestone; season early September.

    =Belle Beauté.= =1.= Liegel _Syst. Anleit._ 184. 1825.

An excellent, scarlet-red freestone ripening the end of September.

    =Belle Cartière.= =1.= _Pom. France_ =6=:No. 8, Pl. 8. 1869.

Armand Jaboulay introduced Belle Cartière which he found in the
vineyard of Madame Cartière, Oullins, Rhône, France. Glands reniform;
flowers small; fruit large, globular; suture more or less pronounced;
skin heavily pubescent, white, almost entirely covered with
reddish-purple; flesh white, with red radiating from the pit, melting,
vinous, juicy; pit nearly free, obtuse, deeply grooved; ripens the
first week in September.

    =Belle de Charleville.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 52. 1876.

Fruit very large, of first quality; glands reniform; ripens in
September.

    =Belle Conquête.= =1.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 74. 1867.

Tree moderately vigorous; glands globose, small; flowers very large;
fruit large, roundish, often flattened at the ends; skin heavily
pubescent, whitish-yellow, mottled with carmine; flesh whitish, reddish
at the pit, melting, sweet; stone large, oval, plump, free; ripens the
last of August.

    =Belle de la Croix.= =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 214. 1866. =2.=
    Thomas _Guide Prat._ 44. 1876.

This variety was first grown in Bordeaux, France. Tree hardy; glands
reniform; flowers small; fruit large, round; skin white, washed with
purple; flesh fine, reddish about the stone, sweet, aromatic; of first
quality; ripens the end of August.

    =Belle de Doué.= =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 214, 215. 1866. =2.=
    Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:139, 140. fig. 68. 1866-73. =3.= Leroy
    _Dict. Pom._ =6=:58, 59. 1879.

    _Schöne von Doué._ =4.= Lauche _Deut. Pom._ =VI=:No. 20, Pl.
    1882.

This peach was grown from seed in 1839 by a M. Dimia-Chatenay at
Doué-la-Fontaine, Maine-et-Loire, France. Glands globose; flowers
small; fruit medium to large, roundish, with a distinct suture; skin
greenish-yellow, washed and mottled with red; flesh greenish-white,
red at the pit, juicy, sweet, with a delicious, aromatic flavor; stone
free; ripens about the middle of August.

    =Belle Dupont.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Belle et Bonne.= =1.= _Ann. Pom. Belge_ =1=:49, 50, Pl. 1853.

    _Schöne Magdalene._ =2.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:199.
    1858.

A. Bivort grew this seedling about 1831 and, because of size and
quality of fruit called it Belle et Bonne. Leaves glandless; flowers
large; fruit large, roundish, deeply sutured; skin heavily pubescent,
clear yellow, with a bright red cheek; flesh white, fine, melting,
aromatic; freestone; ripens the latter part of August.

    =Belle Henri Pinaud.= =1.= _Gard. Chron. N. S._ =18=:472. 1882.
    =2.= _Soc. Nat. Hort. France Pom._ 292 fig., 293. 1904.

A French variety introduced to commerce about 1881. Tree vigorous;
glands reniform; flowers large; fruit large, roundish, slightly
flattened at apex; skin greenish-yellow, deep red where exposed;
faintly sutured; flesh whitish-yellow, fine, sweet; very good in
quality; stone free, elongated; ripens the middle of September.

    =Belle Impériale.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =34=:89. 1868. =2.= _Cat.
    Cong. Pom. France_ 93 fig. 1906.

Obtained by a M. Chevalier, Montreuil, Seine, France. Tree
vigorous; glands globose; flowers medium in size; fruit large,
spherical, slightly oblique near the apex; shallowly sutured; skin
heavily pubescent, yellow, blushed with deep red in the sun; flesh
whitish-yellow, faint carmine near the stone, melting, vinous, sweet;
quality good; ripens the middle of September.

    =Belle de Liège.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 48. 1876.

Belle de Liège produces large, excellent fruit of first quality; glands
absent; flowers medium in size; ripens the end of August.

    =Belle de Logelbach.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 388. 1889. =2.=
    _Guide Prat._ 40. 1895.

Tree vigorous, productive; glands reniform; fruit very large, juicy,
aromatic; ripens the middle of September.

    =Belle de Mes Yeux.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 52. 1876.

Described as a medium-sized peach, with a reddish-brown blush on a
green ground; ripens early in September.

    =Belle de Neuville.= =1.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 90 fig. 1906.

A French seedling raised by C. Jacquet, Neuville, France. Tree
vigorous; glands globose; flowers very large; fruit medium in size,
roundish, faintly sutured; skin amber, washed with deep purple where
exposed; flesh amber, tinged with red at the pit, juicy, sweet,
sprightly; quality excellent; pit large, broad, plump, nearly free;
ripens the last of August.

    =Belle d'Orbassano.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 48. 1876.

Mentioned as a very late, but excellent, Italian variety with reniform
glands.

    =Belle de Saint-Geslin.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =15=:244. 1873. =2.=
    _Le Bon Jard._ 326. 1882.

A variety discovered some years ago in the ruins of the St. Geslin
tower near Richelieu, Indre-et-Loire, France, by a M. Joutron. Fruit
large, whitish-green, splashed with purple; flesh white, melting; very
good; stone free; matures the latter half of October.

    =Belle de Saint-Geslin Blanche.= =1.= _Gard. Chron._ N. S.
    =22=:472. 1884.

A white-fruited sport from the Belle de Saint-Geslin, much esteemed by
the French as a late peach.

    =Belle de Toulouse.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:60 fig., 61.
    1879.

    _Belle Toulousaine._ =2.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 54. 1867.

    _Schöne Toulouserin._ =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 414. 1889.

Jean Rey, a nurseryman at Toulouse, Haute Garonne, France, raised
this peach from seed in 1859. Leroy combines Souvenir de Jean Rey
with this variety but the two are apparently distinct. Fruit large,
roundish-oval, with a shallow suture; skin clear yellow, washed with
dark red; flesh greenish-white, red at the pit, juicy, with a sweet,
vinous flavor; stone free; season the first of September.

    =Belle de Vitry.= =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:36, 37,
    Pl. XXV. 1768. =2.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 244, 245. 1831.
    =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 472. 1845. =4.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._
    =6=:61 fig., 62. 1879.

    _Bellis._ =5.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ 1752.

    _Beauty of Vitry._ =6.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =1=:193. 1831.

    _Schöner von Vitry._ =7.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:210.
    1858.

According to Leroy this peach was raised more than two centuries ago
at Vitry-sur-Seine, France, and was first mentioned by Merlet in 1675.
Some writers have confused it with Admirable. Leaves glandless or with
few globose glands; fruit of medium size, broad, with a deep suture;
skin pale yellowish-white, tinged and marbled with bright and dull red;
flesh greenish-yellow, red at the pit, firm, juicy, rich; quality good;
stone free; season the last of September.

    =Bellegarde.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:62, 63 fig. 1879.

This name has been applied to another peach called Galande but the
variety described by Leroy in this reference appears to be distinct.
Fruit medium in size, roundish, compressed; skin covered with dark red
in the sun; flesh whitish, juicy, sweet, with a pleasant flavor; stone
free; ripens the first of September.

    =Bellows.= =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 105, Pl. XXXI fig. V. 1729.

Bellows is a good bearer with fruit of fair quality. Color
greenish-yellow, with a mottled blush; flesh white, with a trace of red
at the pit; ripens the first of August.

    =Beltzar.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =13=:110. 1847.

An early variety originating in Coshocton County, Ohio.

    =Beltzar Early Rareripe.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =13=:110. 1847.
    _2._ Elliott _Fr. Book_ 291. 1854.

Originated in Coshocton County, Ohio. Glands globose; fruit roundish,
blushed with red in the sun; ripens in August.

    =Ben Hur.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:30. 1910.

A variety, thought to have originated in Michigan, which ripens just
before Elberta.

    =Benade.= =1.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =7=:429. 1864.

Benade is an American peach of medium size; yellow flesh; poor quality;
ripening in August.

    =Benango.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:810. 1896.

Listed as growing in Texas.

    =Bennett Rareripe.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 199. 1841. =2.=
    Elliott _Fr. Book_ 291. 1854.

Of American origin. Glands globose; fruit large, whitish-yellow,
blushed with red; deficient in flavor; ripens early in August.

    =Bequette Cling.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:32. 1895. =2.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 32. 1899.

    _Becquette Cling._ =3.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:91. 1901.

Bequette Cling originated about 1860 in a seedling orchard belonging
to Benjamin Bequette, Visalia, California. In 1877 J. H. Thomas of the
same place gave the variety the name of the originator and commenced
propagating it. This peach is similar to Bequette Free, see page 184,
a variety of the same origin, except in the clinging tendency of the
stone.

    =Berckmans.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:91. 1901.

    _Dr. Berckmans._ =2.= _Rural N. Y._ =54=:106. 1895. =3.= _Ga.
    Sta. Bul._ =42=:235. 1898.

Dr. L. E. Berckmans, Augusta, Georgia, grew Berckmans from a pit of
General Lee about 1880. Glands reniform; fruit large, creamy-white,
blushed and mottled with crimson; flesh white, stained with red at the
pit, melting, juicy, vinous; season follows Thurber.

    =Bergame.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 52. 1876.

Tree vigorous, productive; fruit very large, roundish, irregular; skin
blushed with purple on a deep yellow ground; of first quality; ripens
early in October.

    =Bergen.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 272. 1854.

    _Bergen Yellow._ =2.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 199. 1841. =3.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 490. 1845. =4.= _Proc. Nat. Con. Fr.
    Gr._ 51. 1848.

Bergen is probably a native of Long Island. It resembles Yellow
Rareripe but ripens about ten days later. The American Pomological
Society added this variety to its list of fruits in 1848, a place which
it still holds. Tree bears well; glands reniform; flowers small; fruit
large, globular, depressed; suture distinct; skin deep orange, with
a broad, dark red cheek; flesh yellow, melting, juicy, rich; matures
early in September.

    =Bermuda Cling.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 191. 1860.

Recommended for planting in Mississippi.

    =Bernard Verlot.= =1.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 52, 53. 1867.

A French variety obtained by a M. Carrelet, Paris, France. Tree
vigorous; glands reniform; flowers small; fruit very large, roundish;
cavity wide, shallow; skin with short pubescence, streaked and spotted
with reddish-violet where exposed; flesh whitish, stained at the pit,
melting, very juicy, aromatic; stone nearly free, obovate, deeply
grooved at the sutures.

    =Bernardin de Saint-Pierre.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:65
    fig., 66. 1879.

An old, French seedling found growing about 1865 in the nurseries of
Jamin and Durand near Paris, France. Tree moderately productive;
glands reniform; flowers small; fruit above medium in size,
roundish-oval; suture faintly marked; skin heavily pubescent,
whitish-yellow, mottled with purple in the sun; flesh whitish, carmine
at the stone, melting, very juicy, sweet, sprightly; quality good;
stone small, free, ovoid, plump; ripens in September.

    =Berry. 1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 41. 1895.

Fruit roundish, medium in size; cavity wide, deep; suture distinct;
apex swollen; skin thin, tough, covered with short pubescence,
creamy-white, washed with red; flesh whitish, tinged with red at the
stone, meaty, tender for a cling, very juicy, sweet, rich; quality
good; stone small, oval, clinging; ripens in the District of Columbia
early in September.

    =Bertholome. 1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 52. 1876.

    _Barthélemy._ =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 387. 1889.

A very large, yellow, late peach with small flowers and reniform glands.

    =Bessie Kerr. 1.= J. S. Kerr _Cat._ =4.= 1898.

This variety is described briefly by J. S. Kerr, Denton, Maryland. Tree
vigorous, upright, productive; fruit large, oblong, white; clingstone;
matures in August.

    =Best June. 1.= Ramsey _Cat._ 3. 1912.

According to F. T. Ramsey and Son, Austin, Texas, this peach was
originated about 1894 by John Burkhardt, Fayette County, Texas. It was
introduced by F. T. Ramsey and Son in 1906, and is said to excel Mamie
Ross. Tree very productive; fruit light-colored, with a red cheek;
stone semi-clinging; season the last of June in Texas.

    =Besy Robin. 1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 52. 1876. =2.= Leroy
    _Dict. Pom._ =6=:66 fig., 67. 1879.

Raised by Besy Robin, Angers, Maine, France, about 1863. Tree
productive; glands reniform; flowers small; fruit large, globular,
truncate; suture prominent; skin thick, greenish-yellow, blushed with
red, deeper where exposed; flesh whitish-yellow, stained at the pit,
firm though melting, very juicy, sprightly; of first quality; stone
free, very large, roundish-oval, plump; matures the middle of September.

    =Beville. 1.= _Mag. Hort._ =15=:503. 1849.

Beville has a dwarfish, compact habit of growth and bears numerous,
large blossoms. Grown only in the South.

    =Bexar. 1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:34. 1889. =2.= _Ibid._
    =39=:810. 1896.

Tree vigorous, moderately productive; glands globose; fruit ovate,
light creamy; flesh slightly acid; freestone; ripens the middle of
August.

    =Bianci di Nizza. 1.= _Gard. Chron._ 907. 1858.

Exhibited at the Imperial and Royal Horticultural Society of Tuscany,
Italy.

    =Bickell. 1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =104=:88. 1894. =2.= _Ibid._
    =194=:45. 1901.

An undesirable, late, white freestone of medium size, ripening with
Salwey.

    _Biddle. 1._ _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 167. 1895.

A white-fleshed clingstone ripening the middle of July.

    =Bidwell Early. 1.= _Gard. Mon._ =28=:334. 1886. =2.= _U. S. D.
    A. Rpt._ 575, Pl. VI. 1888.

    =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 44. 1891. =4.= _Fla. Sta. Bul._
    =62=:511. 1902.

One of the seedlings of Peento raised about 1886 by A. I. Bidwell,
Arlington, Florida. The variety was placed in the fruit-list of the
American Pomological Society in 1891. Fruit medium in size, oblong;
cavity abrupt; apex rounded, with a small, recurved point; skin
velvety, creamy-white, deep red where exposed; flesh firm, whitish,
juicy; quality very good; stone oval, thick, clinging; season in
Florida May 20th to June 15th.

    =Bidwell Late.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 44. 1891. =2.= _Fla.
    Sta. Bul._ =62=:511. 1902.

Another of A. I. Bidwell's seedlings of Peento that does well further
north than some varieties of the same origin. Placed in the fruit-list
of the American Pomological Society in 1891. Fruit large, roundish,
yellowish-white; flesh meaty, juicy; quality excellent; stone adherent;
matures in Florida June 15th to July 1st.

    =Bilice.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 211. 1676.

"The Bilice peach is something like the Newington."

    _Billmeyer.= =1._ _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:30. 1910.

Billmeyer is a sprout from the stem of an old Crawford tree, raised
by J. H. Billmeyer, Holloway, Michigan. Tree productive; fruit
roundish-oblate, medium to large; cavity deep; skin thick, tough, with
long pubescence, pale yellow, blushed with dark crimson; flesh yellow,
stained with red at the stone, meaty, tender, juicy, sprightly; quality
very good; stone oval, small, free; matures between the two Crawfords.

    =Bilyeu.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 21. 1897. =2.= Budd-Hansen
    _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:338. 1903. =3.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._
    199. 1913.

    _Bilyeu Comet._ =4.= _Gard. Mon._ =18=:14, 27, 140, 141. 1876.

    _Bilyeu's October._ =5.= Fulton _Peach Cult._ 177. 1908.

This peach seems to have originated more than forty years ago as a
chance seedling in Caroline County, Maryland, having been found and
propagated by a Mr. Bilyeu. It was once quite popular in Maryland. Tree
moderately productive, vigorous; fruit medium in size, round; skin
greenish-white, with a red cheek; flesh white, firm, sweet; of fair
quality; stone free; ripens very late.

    =Binney Large Red.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 48. 1876.

Listed as having small flowers and globose glands.

    =Bird Beauty.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 77. 1893.

Exhibited at the World's Fair in 1893, as having grown in Illinois.

    =Bishop.= =1.= _Okla. Sta. Bul._ =2=:14. 1892. =2.= _U. S. D.
    A. Pom. Rpt._ 41. 1895. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 32. 1899.
    =4.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:208. 1899.

    _Bishop Early._ =5.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =170=:172. 1906. =6.=
    Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 199. 1913.

According to Waugh, Bishop originated in California. Tree vigorous,
hardy, productive; glands globose; fruit medium to large, round, with
a distinct suture; color creamy-white, with a dark red blush; flesh
white, juicy, tender, vinous; quality good; pit free; season the last
of August.

    =Black.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 45. 1897.

    _Dr. Black_. =2.= _Am. Gard._ =18=:715. 1897.

Black is a seedling of the Smock type, named in honor of Dr. J. J.
Black, Newcastle, Delaware. Fruit large, round; skin heavily pubescent,
yellow, with a blushed cheek; flesh yellow, red at the pit, rich
subacid; quality very good; stone oval; ripens late.

    =Black Early.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =14=:280. 1872.

    _Black Extra Early._ =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 1st App. 120.
    1872.

A very early, white-fleshed seedling found on the farm of Dr. J.
Stayman, Leavenworth, Kansas. The fruit is said to surpass Hale Early
in size and quality.

    =Black Seedling.= =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =62=:562. 1903.

A seedling of Mamie Ross raised by J. H. Black, Hightstown, New Jersey.
The fruit ripens with Sneed but is higher in quality and is more
resistant to rot.

    =Blacke.= =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 582. 1629.

"The Blacke Peach is a great large Peach, of a very darke browne colour
on the outside, it is of a waterish taste, and late ripe."

    =Blake.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:30. 1910.

A peach that William Blake, Niles, Michigan, says is the earliest,
yellow freestone.

    =Blanc de City.= =1.= Decaisne _Jard. Fruit._ =7=:Pl. 1872-75.

Tree moderately vigorous, very productive; glands reniform; flowers
medium to large; fruit medium in size, globular; suture distinct;
cavity wide; skin covered with short pubescence, whitish-yellow,
dark red where exposed; flesh whitish, melting, juicy; stone large,
roundish, nearly free; ripens early in September.

    =Blanchard.= =1.= Munson _Cat._ 7. 1904-05.

The catalog of T. V. Munson, Denison, Texas, states that this variety
is a seedling originated and named by C. C. F. Blanchard, Runnels
County, Texas. It is similar to Chinese Cling but ripens later.

    =Blanche d'Ekenholm.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =20=:270. 1854.

Fruit large, yellowish-white, lightly marked with carmine; flesh
whitish-yellow, sweet, sugary; stone free; ripens at the end of July.

    =Blanche Énorme de Mézel.= =1.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 64.
    1867.

Tree vigorous; glands reniform; flowers large, rose-colored; fruit
large, spherical, rarely elongated; skin very pubescent, pale yellow,
occasionally blushed in the sun; flesh yellow, stained at the pit,
melting, sweet; stone oval, free; ripens the second half of August.

    =Blanche Tardive de Sabarot.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 388.
    1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Blanton Cling.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 635. 1857.

    _Yellow Blanton Cling._ =2.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 277. 1854.

A seedling of Lemon Cling and very similar to it but a few days later.
Leaves large; glands reniform; fruit large, resembling Lemon Cling.
Reproduces itself from seed.

    =Bledsoe Early Cling.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 50.
    1879. =2.= _Ibid._ 110. 1880.

A seedling raised by Ira L. Wood, Pleasant Hill, Missouri. Said to be
earlier and better than Amsden.

    =Bledsoe Seedling.= =1.= Hooper _W. Fr. Book_ 214. 1857.

A good commercial peach about Frankfort, Kentucky. Leaves glandless;
flowers large; fruit roundish-oblong, of medium size, yellow, with a
red blush; flesh mild, sweet; ripens in September.

    =Blodgett's Seedlings.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =24=:334, 335. 1882.

The following are seedlings mentioned as having originated with a Lorin
Blodgett:

    Blodgett Crimson Cling,
    Blodgett Crimson Freestone,
    Blodgett Golden Cling,
    Blodgett Golden Freestone,
    Blodgett Golden October Cling,
    Blodgett Golden Pointed Cling.

These peaches do not seem to have been recognized by other writers.

    =Blondeau.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 48. 1876. =2.= _Soc. Nat.
    Hort. France Pom._ 296 fig., 297. 1904.

Joseph Blondeau, Montrueil, Seine, France, introduced this variety
about 1856. Tree moderately vigorous, very productive; glands globose;
flowers small, deep red; fruit large, roundish; cavity large, deep;
skin milky-white, purple where exposed; flesh milky-white, reddish
around the pit, melting, sweet, aromatic; quality excellent; stone
elliptical, plump, free; ripens late in September.

    =Blood Free.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 21. 1897.

    _Blood Freestone._ =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 601. 1869.

    _Indian Blood Freestone._ =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 28. 1873.
    =4.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 25. 1876.

Blood Free was probably raised by John M. Ives, Salem, Massachusetts,
and is distinct from Blood Cling in having its stone free. The American
Pomological Society placed the variety in its list of fruits in 1873 as
Indian Blood Freestone but in 1897 shortened the name to Blood Free.
Tree vigorous, hardy; fruit of medium size, compressed; apex roundish;
skin greenish-white overspread with splashes and stripes of dark red;
flesh blood-red throughout, juicy, coarse, tough and meaty; quality
fair; stone free; season very late.

    =Bloor.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:31. 1910.

Named after the originator, John Bloor, Mears, Michigan. Tree upright,
exceptionally hardy in bud and branch; fruit resembles Kalamazoo with
which it ripens but is superior to it.

    =Blush.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:92. 1901.

    _Beauty Blush._ =2.= Bailey _Ann. Hort._ 184. 1892.

A little known seedling from Chinese Cling raised by J.H. Jones,
Herndon, Georgia. Fruit large, high-colored, melting, delicious;
freestone; ripens in Georgia the last of June.

    =Bogg Leviathan.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 114. 1880.

    _Bogg Mammoth._ =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 161. 1881.

A very large peach of good quality, ripening three weeks later than
Late Crawford, excellent for drying and canning. Raised by a Mr. Bogg,
Bonham, Texas.

    =Boisselot.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 52. 1876. =2.= Leroy
    _Dict. Pom._ =6=:68 fig., 69. 1879.

Auguste Boisselot, Nantes, Loire-Inferieure, France, originated this
variety. Glands reniform; flowers small, rose-colored; fruit large,
roundish-oval; skin thick, whitish, marbled and streaked with red;
flesh white, melting, rather firm, juicy, often disagreeable; stone
elongated, free; ripens the last of August.

    =Bokhara.= =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 377. 1896. =2.= _Ibid._
    256. 1897. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =187=:68. 1901. =4.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1909.

Bokhara is remarkable for great hardiness but has little else to
recommend it. It was introduced by the late J. L. Budd from pits
received from Bokhara, Russia, about 1890 and in 1909 was added to
the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society. Several distinct
peaches are grown under this name, probably all from the pits planted
by Professor Budd. As Bokhara grows on the Station grounds the leaves
are large; glands reniform; flowers appear in mid-season, medium in
size, pink; fruit of medium size, oblong-oval, bulged near the apex
making the halves unequal; suture shallow; apex with a prolonged tip;
skin thin, tender, with a thick, short pubescence, greenish-yellow,
pale, faintly blushed and striped with dull red; flesh greenish-white,
stringy, mealy, sweet; quality poor; stone oval, narrow, conspicuously
winged; ripens late in August.

    =Boley.= =1.= _New Haven Nur. Cat._ 6. 1899-1900.

This variety is described in the catalog of the New Haven Nurseries,
New Haven, Missouri, as a large, white-fleshed variety ripening in
Missouri about August 20th.

    =Bollweiler Favorite= =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:33, 34, fig. 15.
    1866-73. =2.= Lauche _Deut. Pom._ =VI=:No. 2, Pl. 1882.

Obtained by Eugene Baumann, Bollweiler, Elsass, Germany. Tree
productive; glands reniform; flowers large; fruit large, roundish,
flattened at the base; suture shallow; skin tender, whitish-yellow,
blushed; flesh white, tender, sweet, pleasing; stone oval, free; ripens
early in August.

    =Bollweiler Magdalene.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 177. 1835.
    =2.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:197. 1858.

    _Bollwiller de Madeleine._ =3.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 98.
    1831.

    _Grosse-Madeline._ =4.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 40, 219. 1876.

Another variety from the same source as above. Tree vigorous,
productive; glandless; flowers large; fruit medium in size, roundish;
suture shallow; skin greenish-white; flesh very pleasing; stone free;
ripens the last of August.

    =Bonanza.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 161. 1881. =2.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:208. 1899.

Bonanza is of Texas origin and is planted only in the South. It is very
late in ripening and is not productive nor is the fruit high in quality
on the Station grounds. Tree vigorous, hardy; glands reniform; flowers
appear in mid-season, small, dark pink at the edges; fruit small to
above, roundish-oval, with a prune-like neck, halves unequal; apex
with a small, mamelon tip; skin tough, with long, coarse pubescence,
creamy-white, with a small blush of lively red; flesh white, rather
dry, stringy, with a slight astringency; stone oval, slightly
flattened, with a long, sharp apex; ripens the second week of October.

    =Bonito.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:34. 1889. =2.= _Ibid._
    =39=:815. 1896.

Vigorous, productive; glands reniform; fruit rather small, roundish,
with an acute projection; color creamy-white; stone adherent; ripens
July 25th.

    =Bonlez.= =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:43, 44, fig. 20. 1866-73.
    =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 606. 1869.

    _Bonlezer Lackpfirsich._ =3.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:212. 1858.

Bonlez was obtained by Bivort of Belgium about 1830. Tree moderately
productive; glands reniform; flowers large; fruit large, roundish,
depressed, deeply sutured; skin downy, white, blushed; flesh white,
melting, juicy, sweet, aromatic; of first quality; stone oval, thick,
free; ripens the middle of September.

    =Bonne Dame de Laeken.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat_. 52. 1876.

A variety of Belgian origin; fruit large; tree productive.

    =Bonne Gros de Noisette.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 601.
    1869.

    _Guter grosser Lackpfirsich._ =2.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:211. 1858.

Originated with a M. Noisette, Paris, France. Fruit large, roundish,
depressed; suture deep; color white, faintly marbled in the sun;
flesh yellowish-white, juicy, vinous, aromatic; freestone; ripens in
September.

    =Bonne Grosse.= =1.= Noisette _Man. Comp. Jard._ =2=:480. 1860.

Bonne Grosse originated about 1820 in France. Glands globose; flowers
small; fruit very large, roundish, greenish, blushed with red; flesh
firm, vinous, good; ripens at the end of September.

    =Bonne-Julie.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat_. 52, 216. 1876.

Fruit large; skin washed and spotted with carmine-red; flesh melting,
very juicy, pleasing; ripens the second half of August.

    =Bonneuil.= =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 227. 1866. =2=. Carrière
    _Var. Pêchers_ 46. 1867.

    _Bonneuil Lackpfirsich._ =3.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:216. 1858.

This is a very late clingstone ripening the second week in November;
a long keeper. Glandless; flowers large; fruit above medium in size,
roundish, distinctly sutured; apex mamelon; skin greenish-white, with a
faint blush in the sun; flesh firm, white, juicy; not highly flavored.

    =Bonouvrier.= =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:147, 148, fig. 72.
    1866-73. =2.= Bobbink & Atkins _Cat._ 119. 1914.

Bonouvrier originated with a M. Bonouvrier, Montreuil, Seine, France.
Glands globose; flowers medium in size; fruit large, roundish,
compressed; suture more pronounced at the apex; skin white, largely
blushed with deep purple; flesh white, stained at the pit, melting,
sweet; stone nearly free; ripens at the end of September.

    =Boquier.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 316. 1889.

A large, yellow, Californian variety with good shipping qualities.

    =Bordeaux.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 28. 1875.

    _Bordeaux Cling._ =2=. Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 635. 1857.

    _Belle de Bordeaux._ =3.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser. =3=:63.
    1900.

Bordeaux was raised from a stone brought from Bordeaux, France. It held
a place on the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society from 1875
until 1891. Fruit large, oblong, a little one-sided; suture shallow;
skin downy, lemon-yellow, with a red cheek; flesh yellow, red at the
pit, juicy, melting, vinous; stone clinging; ripens early in August.

    =Böttchers Frühpfirsich.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185. 1883.

Not described in this reference.

    =Bourdeaux.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 211. 1676. =2=. Miller _Gard.
    Dict_. 1752.

Listed among yellow varieties of lesser merit.

    =Bourdine.= =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 102, Pl. 28 fig. 5. 1729.
    =2.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:20, 21, Pl. 12. 1768. =3.=
    Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 245, 246. 1831. =4.= _Gard.
    Chron._ 152. 1865. =5.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:70, 71 fig., 72,
    73, 74. 1879.

    _Bourdin Lackpfirsich._ =6.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:208, 209. 1858.

    _Boudin._ =7.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 215. 1866.

Bourdine is an old French sort written of by Merlet and Quintinye.
It has been confused with Royale, Louis XIV having so named it on
receiving it from his gardener, Bourdine. Duhamel maintains that
these two are distinct varieties and we have followed him. Leaves
with globose glands; flowers small, edged with carmine; fruit large,
roundish, halves unequal; suture deep and wide; skin greenish-white,
blushed and marbled; flesh white, melting, separates readily from the
pit, sugary; quality good; stone small, nearly round; ripens the middle
of September.

    =Bourdine Royale.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 94. 1831.

Listed in this reference.

    =Bowers Early.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =19=:274. 1877. =2.= _W. N.
    Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 50. 1879.

A large, freestone peach, earlier than Amsden, said to have originated
in Frederick, Maryland, in 1876.

    =Bowslaugh Late.= =1.= _Can. Hort._ =11=:151. 1888.

    _Bowslaugh._ =2.= _Ont. Fr. Gr. Assoc. Rpt._ =22=:31. 1890.

A fine, late, yellow seedling of the Crawford type; originated in the
Niagara district, Ontario, Canada.

    =Boyd Early.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:97. 1892.

Listed in this reference.

    =Boyles.= =1.= _Ont. Sta. Rpt._ =1=:51. 1894. =2.= _Mich. Sta.
    Sp. Bul._ =44=:31. 1910.

A variety found by James Boyles, Douglas, Michigan. A very good
substitute for Early Crawford. Tree vigorous; fruit large, yellow,
pleasing.

    =Brackett.= =1.= Berckmans _Cat._ 12. 1912-13.

P. J. Berckmans, Augusta, Georgia, states that this variety was named
in honor of the late Colonel G. B. Brackett. It is a yellow-fleshed
freestone, a cross between Smock and Chinese Cling, ripening just after
Elberta, said to be of best quality.

    =Braddick American.= =1.= Brookshaw _Hort. Reposit._ =1=:59,
    Pl. 29. 1823. =2.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 273, 274. 1831.

    _Braddick's North American._ =3.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 94.
    1831.

Leaves crenate, with globose glands; flowers small; fruit of medium
size, slightly tapering towards the apex; deeply sutured; skin pale
yellow, tinged with red; flesh pale yellow nearly to the stone, juicy;
stone clings; ripens the middle of September.

    =Braddick New York.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 94. 1831.

Braddick New York is a freestone of second size and quality, ripening
early in September; glands reniform; flowers small; color pale green,
with a blush.

    =Braddick Red.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 94. 1831.

Leaves serrate, glandless; flowers large; fruit large, pale green,
blushed with dark red; flesh melting, free from the pit; of first
quality; ripens at the end of August.

    =Braddick South American.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 94.
    1831.

Not described in this reference.

    =Braddick Summer.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 95. 1831.

Leaves with reniform glands; flowers small; fruit large, pale green;
flesh melting; of second quality; pit free; ripens late in August.

    =Bradley.= =1.= _Pa. Fr. Gr. Soc. Rpt._ 39, Pl. 1879. =2.=
    _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:97. 1892.

Bradley originated in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. Not generally
disseminated. Tree vigorous, productive; glands globose; fruit large;
flesh white, firm, juicy; freestone; ripens after Late Crawford.

    =Brainard Large Yellow.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 189. 1841.

Fruit large, yellow in the shade; of excellent flavor; ripens in
September.

    =Brandy.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 199. 1841.

Brandy is a round, medium-sized fruit, with crimson flesh; ripens in
August.

    =Brandywine.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 161. 1881. =2.= _Rural
    N. Y._ =46=:352. 1887. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 32. 1899. =4.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:208, 209. 1899. =5.= Budd-Hansen _Am.
    Hort. Man._ =2=:339. 1903. =6.= Fulton _Peach Cult._ 175. 1908.

According to the references, Delaware is the place of origin of this
peach and Late Crawford may be its parent. Tree vigorous, moderately
productive; glands globose; fruit large, flattened and ovate,
compressed at the suture which is distinct; apex prominent; color
yellow, washed and striped with red; flesh yellow, red at the pit,
juicy, tender, mild but not rich; quality good; pit free; season the
last of September.

    =Brant.= =1.= _Utah Sta. Bul._ =18=:12. 1892.

Listed as once grown in Utah.

    =Bray Rareripe.= =1.= _N. J. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 42. 1878. =2.=
    _Mo. State Fr. Sta. Rpt._ 12. 1905-06.

    _Bray White._ =3.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 243. 1886.

This variety resembles Oldmixon Free except in season, being later.
It originated with D. Bray, Monmouth County, New Jersey. The peach as
it grows on the Station grounds is hardy but not productive; glands
globose; flowers small, appear in mid-season; fruit large, roundish;
cavity shallow; apex mamelon, recurved; skin tough, thick, heavily
pubescent, creamy-white, blushed with lively red; flesh white, stained
at the pit, juicy, tender, sprightly, pleasing; good in quality; stone
free, broadly oval, flattened; ripens late in September.

    =Braunauer Lackpfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:214. 1858.

    _Braunauer Rote Frühe Pfirsich._ =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 389.
    1889.

A seedling of Gemeiner Lieblingspfirsich. Tree productive; glands
reniform; fruit above medium in size, oval; skin heavily pubescent,
greenish-yellow; flesh reddish at the pit, aromatic; stone free; ripens
the middle of September.

    =Braunauer Magdalene.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 389. 1889.

Listed in the reference given.

    =Brett.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =22=:370. 1880. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 36. 1909.

    _Mrs. Brett._ =3.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:352. 1903.

Brett was introduced by Joseph H. Ricketts, Newburgh, New York; listed
by the American Pomological Society in 1909. It is earlier than
Oldmixon Free and superior to it in color and quality.

    =Brevoort.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =6=:414. 1826. =2.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 472. 1845.

    _Brevoort Seedling Melter._ =3.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch.
    Gard._ 183. 1846.

Raised by Henry Brevoort of New York, from Morrisania Pound. Leaves
crenated; glands reniform; flowers small; fruit below medium in size,
roundish; skin grayish-white, bright red where exposed; flesh firm,
juicy, sugary; stone small, flat, free; ripens the middle of August.

    =Brevoort Seedling Pound.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Rpt._
    =6=:412. 1826.

Another seedling of Morrisania Pound, raised by Henry Brevoort.
Resembles its parent in shape and flavor, but ripens two weeks earlier.

    =Brice Early.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 50. 1879. =2.=
    _Gard. Mon._ =25=:272. 1883.

Dr. S. M. Brice of Kansas originated this variety about 1874; it is
said to rival other early, white clings.

    =Briggs.= =1.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 193. 1849. =2.= Waugh _Am.
    Peach Orch._ 199. 1913. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1909.

    _Briggs' May._ =4.= _Ibid._ 28. 1877.

    _Brigg's Early May._ =5.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 113. 1880.

    _Rouge de Mai._ =6.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 526. 1906.

The name Briggs has been applied to three distinct varieties. This
peach originated in Dedham, Massachusetts, many years ago. The American
Pomological Society added it to its fruit-list in 1877 as Briggs' May,
dropping it in 1891 but replacing it as Briggs in 1909. Tree hardy,
reproducing itself closely from seed; fruit large, roundish-truncate,
with a distinct suture; skin white, nearly covered with bright red;
flesh white, tinged with red at the pit, juicy, with a rich, sweet,
vinous flavor; quality good; pit free; season the first of September.

    =Briggs Red May.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =18=:145, 241. 1876. =2.=
    Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 309. 1889.

    _Briggs._ =3.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:339, 340. 1903.

This variety originated about 1870 as a chance seedling on the farm
of John G. Briggs, near Yuba City, California. Fruit medium to large,
round; skin white, with a rich red cheek; flesh greenish-white,
melting, juicy, free; quality very good; season early.

    =Bright.= =1.= _Can. Hort._ =26=:483. 1903.

Charles E. Bright, Brampton, Canada, originated this variety about
1895. Fruit large, creamy-white; flesh tender, juicy, sweet; matures
early in October.

    =Brodie.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 184. 1835.

Fruit large, round, red in the sun; very juicy; clingstone.

    =Bronough Cling.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 158. 1881. =2.=
    _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:815. 1896.

A very late variety with reniform glands. "Does not do well in Texas."

    =Bronzée.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185. 1883.

Fruit not described in this reference.

    =Brooks.= =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 104, Pl. 31 fig. 3. 1729.

Raised by Lord Brooks, Twickenham, Middlesex, England. Fruit large;
flesh white to the stone, melting, juicy; freestone; ripens on a west
wall about August 8th.

    =Brown.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 170. 1882. =2.= _U. S. D.
    A. Yearbook_ 273. 1903.

This is a white-fleshed seedling of Chili found by Orrin Brown, Berrien
County, Michigan. Tree hardy, with the drooping habit of Chili. Fruit
averages larger than Hale Early which it closely follows in ripening.

    =Brown Choice.= =1.= Black _Cult. Peach & Pear_ 115. 1886.

    _Brown Best._ =2.= Fulton _Peach Cult._ 177, 178. 1908.

A large, white-fleshed variety ripening with Late Crawford.

    =Brown Early.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 115. 1880.

An early variety originated by W. L. Brown, Ashley, Illinois.

    =Brown Nutmeg.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:24, 25. 1832.

This is a stray variety which has often been confused with Red Nutmeg
but the two are distinct. Fruit much smaller than Red Nutmeg, somewhat
oval, with a mamelon apex; skin yellowish, with considerable dingy red;
flavor pleasant; ripens in July.

    =Browns Frühpfirsich.= =1.= Stoll _O. U. Pom._ Pl. 52 fig. 4.
    1888.

A seedling of Hale Early ripening after it. Fruit globular, slightly
compressed at the ends; skin woolly, whitish-yellow, spotted red where
exposed; flesh white, adherent; stone large for the size of fruit.

    =Brunson.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 79. 1889. =2.= _Mich.
    Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:32, Pl. 1910.

Brunson is a chance seedling found about 1880 by Rufus Brunson, Benton
Harbor, Michigan. It is grown in Michigan but not as much as Kalamazoo
which it closely resembles. On the Station grounds the trees are hardy,
unproductive, large, with lower branches drooping. Glands reniform;
flowers appear early, small; fruit large, cordate; apex usually
mamelon; skin tough, covered with short pubescence, lemon-yellow,
splashed with dark, dull red on a lively blush giving it a bronze
effect; flesh yellow, firm, mild; good; stone broadly oval, bulged near
the apex, terminating in a long, sharp point; ripens the middle of
September.

    =Buck.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 318. 1889.

A seedling grown by L. W. Buck, Vaca Valley, California; a good shipper.

    =Buckeye.= =1.= _Ohio Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 4. 1855.

A seedling from Clark County, Ohio, having pale yellowish-white flesh.
It is inferior to Late Crawford and ripens ten days later.

    =Buckinghamshire Minion.= =1.= Brookshaw _Pom. Brit._ =1=:Pl.
    23. 1817.

Skin thin; flesh red at the stone; ripens the middle of August.

    =Bullard.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 186. 1841.

Originated with a Mr. Bullard, Framingham, Massachusetts. Fruit very
large, round, deep yellow in the sun; flesh yellow, juicy, sweet;
freestone; ripens early in September.

    =Bullard Cling.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 196. 1841.

A large, round clingstone from Massachusetts.

    =Bullmann Aprikosenpfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:219. 1858.

Leaves glandless; flowers small; fruit of medium size, somewhat oblate,
faintly sutured; flesh yellow, sprightly; stone acutely pointed, free;
ripens at the end of August.

    =Buonaparte.= =1.= Bridgeman _Gard. Ass't_ =Pt. 3=:105. 1857.

A fine, early market variety introduced by Joseph Buonaparte, New
Jersey.

    =Burchell Early.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 95. 1831.

Listed in this reference.

    =Burdock.= =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 106, Pl. 33 fig. 2. 1729.

Fruit large, blushed with vermilion-red; flesh firm, juicy; stone
clinging; ripens on a south wall August 30th.

    =Burford October Cling.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 191. 1860.

Reported as grown successfully in Mississippi.

    =Burgess Beauty.= =.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 183. 1841.

A variety from Middletown, New Jersey. Earlier, better, and more
productive than Early York.

    =Burke.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =27=:79. 1886. =2.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._
    =13=:92. 1901.

Burke is of southern origin having come from Avoyelles, Louisiana. The
peaches ought to ship well as they are thick-skinned. On the Station
grounds the fruit drops badly and lacks both color and quality. Tree
vigorous, hardy, unproductive; glands reniform; flowers appear in
mid-season, large; fruit large, oblong-oval, halves unequal, sides
drawn up about the cavity, with a mucronate tip at the apex; skin
thick, tough, covered with thick, coarse pubescence, creamy-yellow,
with a slight blush of lively red; flesh white, stained at the pit,
firm, juicy, tender, pleasing; quality fair; stone clinging, oval,
pointed at the ends, plump on one side; ripens the first week in
September.

    =Burlington Large Early.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 95. 1831.

Listed in this reference.

    =Burnap.= =1.= Ramsey _Cat._ 3. 1912.

This variety is described by F. T. Ramsey and Son, Austin, Texas, as a
productive, white clingstone found by S. L. Burnap, Austin, Texas.

    =Burns.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =20=:273. 1878. 2. _W. N. Y. Hort.
    Soc. Rpt._ 51. 1879.

Burns is claimed by its originator, T. F. Burns, Mt. Pulaski, Illinois,
to ripen a month earlier than Alexander.

    =Burrough.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:97. 1892.

Listed in this reference.

    =Buski.= =1.= _Ariz. Sta. Bul._ =15=:67. 1895.

Listed as having been grown in Arizona.

    =Bustian October.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =16=:315. 1874. =2.= _Ga.
    Sta. Bul._ =42=:233. 1898.

Bustian October originated in Fayette County, Georgia. Ripens too
late for the North. Tree spreading, dense; glands reniform; flowers
conspicuous; fruit large, sweet; clingstone; ripens the middle of
October.

    =Butler Late.= =1.= _N. C. Sta. Rpt._ =11=:108. 1889. =2.= Hood
    _Cat._ 30. 1905.

Butler Late originated with J. T. Butler, Richmond, Virginia. The
fruit on the Station grounds lacks in size and flavor. Tree hardy, not
very productive; glands reniform; flowers appear in mid-season, small,
margins deep pink; fruit medium in size, irregularly oval, angular;
cavity shallow; suture extends nearly around the fruit, deepens near
the apex; skin thin, tough, with thick pubescence, creamy-white,
blushed with lively red, deepening to dark red; flesh white, rather
dry, stringy, slightly sprightly; fair in quality; stone wedge-shape
at the base, obovate, acutely pointed at the apex, semi-clinging;
ripens the last of September.

    =Butterpfirsich.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 391. 1889.

    _Beure._ =2.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:31, 32, fig. 14. 1866-73.
    =3.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 79. 1867.

Found in the village of Beure, Doubs, France. Tree productive;
glandless; flowers small, deep red; fruit of medium size, halves
unequal, depressed at the apex; cavity deep, narrow; skin marbled with
deep red in the sun; flesh whitish, faintly red at the stone, melting,
juicy, sugary; stone small, oval, nearly free; ripens August 15th.

    =Buttram.= =1.= Ramsey _Cat._ 8. 1909.

F. T. Ramsey, Austin, Texas, introduced Buttram from Deaf Smith County,
Texas. A large, yellow clingstone ripening in Texas about September
15th.

    =C. Cling.= =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =15=:288. 1897.

Listed by this Station in 1897; received from the Farmers Nursery
Company, Tadmor, Ohio.

    =Cabin.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 77. 1893.

Exhibited at the World's Fair, 1893, as having been grown in Illinois.

    =Cable.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1909.

    _Cable Late._ =2.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 282. 1854. =3.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 602. 1869.

    _Cable Late Malacatune._ =4.= Hooper _W. Fr. Book_ 215. 1857.

A seedling of Red Cheek Melocoton, raised by E. Cable, Cleveland, Ohio.
Resembles Late Crawford but the fruit is larger and earlier.

    =Cable Early.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 291. 1854.

One of E. Cable's seedlings; glands globose; fruit large, yellow,
subacid; ripens in September.

    =Cable Medium Melocoton.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 291. 1854.

A yellow variety with globose glands; ripening in September.

    =Cabler Indian.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 44. 1891. =2.= _Glen
    St. Mary Nur. Cat._ 11. 1900.

Cabler Indian originated in Texas. In 1891 it appeared on the
fruit-list of the American Pomological Society where it remained about
ten years. Fruit large; flesh purplish, rich, subacid; clingstone;
ripens in Florida July 15th.

    =California.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 316. 1889. =2.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1909.

California originated in Sacramento, California; it is highly prized
in its native state. It was entered on the fruit-list of the American
Pomological Society in 1909. Fruit large, round, orange-yellow, largely
blushed with dark red; flavor delicate, rich, vinous; clingstone.

    =Callie Scaff.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =20=:237. 1878.

A seedling of Early York from J. D. Scaff, Water Valley, Kentucky. It
is an early sort, said to excel Amsden.

    =Calloway Cling.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =24=:83, 148. 1882.

    _Calaway._ =2.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:815. 1896.

Introduced about 1875 by G. W. Stoner, Shrevesport, Louisiana.
Remarkable for the size, quality, and lateness of the peaches.

    =Camak Serrate.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 186. 1858.

    _Camak Red Twigged._ =2.= _Mag. Hort._ =15=:501, 502. 1849.

This variety is grown more for its tree than for its fruit. The tree
has vermilion-colored twigs in winter and golden foliage in summer.
Fruit large, oval; suture distinct; apex noticeably mamelon; flesh
yellow, juicy; flavor reminding one of an unripe pineapple; season very
late.

    =Cambria.= =1.= Brookshaw _Hort. Reposit._ =2=:197, Pl. 103.
    1823.

    _Cambray._ =2.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 95. 1831.

Cambria is a poor table-fruit but is one of the best for preserving.
Leaves coarsely serrated; flowers large; fruit pale greenish-white,
blushed; ripens the last of September.

    =Cambridge Belle.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 282. 1854. =2.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 72. 1862.

    _Hovey Cambridge Belle._ =3.= _Mag. Hort._ =13=:114. 1847.

Cambridge Belle held a place on the fruit-list of the American
Pomological Society from 1862 until 1869. Fruit large, roundish, clear
waxen, tinted where exposed; ripens early in September.

    =Camden Superb.= =1.= _Mo. State Fr. Sta. Rpt._ =1=:11. 1901.

Listed but not described.

    =Camelia.= =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =62=:533. 1903.

Camelia originated on the farm of a Mr. Wright, Randolph County, North
Carolina. It is very similar to Carman.

    =Campbell.= =1.= _Ala. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 106. 1908.

Campbell is a strain of Chinese Cling raised by Judge Campbell,
Pensacola, Florida. It is too tender for commercial purposes.

    =Canary.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 291. 1854. =2.= Hogg _Fruit
    Man._ 215, 216. 1866. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 602. 1869.

Canary takes its name from the peculiar coloring of its fruit; it is of
American origin. Glands globose; flowers small; fruit medium in size,
roundish-oblong; skin thin, bright yellow flesh melting, juicy, rich;
stone free; ripens in the North in August.

    =Canner Choice.= =1.= _Tex. Nur. Cat._ 5. 1913.

Mentioned by the Texas Nursery Company, Sherman, Texas, as a white
clingstone, ripening in July.

    =Cannon.= =1.= _Peachland Nur. Cat._ 11. 1892.

This variety, according to the Peachland Nurseries, Seaford, Delaware,
is grown in Bridgeville, Delaware, where it originated with H. P.
Cannon. Tree vigorous, productive; fruit large, yellow; ripens late.

    =Caper.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 164. 1899.

Recommended for Delaware.

    =Capital.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 25. 1894.

Fruit above medium to large, roundish; cavity broad and deep; suture
deep at the cavity; with a mamelon tip at the apex; skin velvety, thin,
tenacious, yellow, with a slight blush; flesh lemon-yellow, stained at
the stone, firm but tender, sprightly; quality very good; stone very
small, oval, free; ripens the first of October.

    =Capps.= =1.= Capps Bros. _Cat._ 1908.

Capps was raised and introduced by Capps Brothers, Mt. Pulaski,
Illinois, about 1902. At this Station the trees are unproductive. Tree
low, open; leaves large, with both globose and reniform glands; flowers
appear in mid-season; fruit large, roundish-oval, halves unequal;
cavity deep, wide; skin tough, covered with a thick, coarse pubescence,
golden yellow, usually blushed with lively red; flesh yellow, stained
at the pit, fine, tender, pleasing when fully ripe; quality variable;
stone large, oval, plump, flattened and pointed at the base, with
numerous pittings, free; ripens the middle of September.

    =Cardinale.= =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:43, Pl. 31.
    1768. =2.= Christ _Wörterb._ 349. 1802. =3.= Prince _Pom. Man._
    =1=:199. 1831. =4.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:82 fig., 83. 1879.

    _Grosse Blutpfirsche._ =5.= Christ _Handb._ 595, 596. 1817.

    _Sanguine Cardinale._ =6.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 65. 1867.

According to Duhamel, this is a sub-variety of Sanguinole which it
surpasses. It was brought to America by W. R. Prince as a curiosity.
The flesh is dark purple; the quality is poor. In warmer climates, it
does much better than here and is esteemed for preserves and compotes;
ripens in October.

    =Carey Mammoth Cling.= =1.= _Horticulturist_ =2=:400. 1847-48.

This variety is not large as the name would indicate. Glands globose;
flowers small; fruit oval; flesh white and well-flavored; ripens the
last of September.

    =Carl Late.= =1.= _Pa. Dept. Agr. Rpt._ 149. 1895.

Listed as having been grown in the Juniata peach-belt, Blair County,
Pennsylvania.

    =Carl Wredow.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 391. 1889.

Listed but not described.

    =Carlisle.= =1.= _Ont. Sta. Rpt._ =1=:19. 1894. =2.= Brown
    Bros. _Cat._ 32. 1900.

A hardy, vigorous and productive peach originating in St. Catherines,
Ontario, Canada. Fruit with thin skin, considerably blushed; flesh deep
yellow, firm, aromatic; pit small; ripens after Early Crawford.

    =Carmine.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 294. 1859.

Carmine is a freestone peach of American origin, with reniform glands
and small flowers. Fruit large, oblong, reddish, with sweet, juicy
flesh; ripens in August.

    =Carnation.= =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 580. 1629.

"The Carnation Peach is of three sorts, two are round, and the third
long; they are all of a whitish colour, shadowed over with red, and
more red on the side is next the sunne; the lesser round is the more
common, and the later ripe."

    =Caroline Beauty.= =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =12=:612. 1893. =2.=
    Hood _Cat._ 30. 1905.

A white-fleshed clingstone from Caroline County, Virginia, where it is
largely used for preserves. It matures on the Station grounds early in
October.

    =Caroline Incomparable.= =1.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 43. 1867.

Tree vigorous; glands reniform; flowers small, pale rose; fruit large,
irregular in outline, conical, mamelon at the apex; skin orange-yellow,
blushed and marbled with deep red; flesh stained at the pit, firm,
fibrous, sugary, juicy; stone clinging, acutely oval; ripens the first
of September.

    =Carolinen Härtling.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Carpenter.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1909.

    _Carpenter Cling._ =2.= _Ibid._ 44. 1891. =3.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._
    =13=:91, 92. 1901.

Carpenter is a seedling of Chinese Cling which originated with a Mr.
Carpenter of Texas. It was put on the American Pomological Society's
list of fruits in 1891 as Carpenter Cling, but was dropped in 1897,
reappearing in 1909 as Carpenter. Fruit large, white-fleshed,
clingstone; ripens July 15th.

    =Carpenter Red Rareripe.= =1.= Hooper _W. Fr. Book_ 215. 1857.

Best known about Frankfort, Kentucky. Glands reniform; flowers small;
fruit roundish, of medium size; flesh white, stained at the pit,
melting, juicy; quality fair; freestone; ripens in September.

    =Carpenter White.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 609. 1857. =2.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 78. 1862.

    _Carpenter Late._ =3.= Kan. Hort. Soc. _Peach, The_ 139. 1899.

William S. Carpenter, New York City, introduced this variety. It held
a place on the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society from
1862 until 1869. Tree vigorous, productive; glands globose; fruit very
large, round, white; flesh white to the pit, juicy, melting, separating
from the stone, of excellent flavor; matures the middle of October.

    =Carroll Late.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:97. 1892.

Listed as growing at the Delaware Station.

    =Carson.= =1.= Berckmans _Cat._ 11. 1912-13.

Carson came from Hancock County, Georgia, according to the catalog of
P. J. Berckmans, Augusta, Georgia. Tree productive; fruit above medium
in size; skin pale yellow, totally overspread with light carmine; flesh
white, juicy, vinous; stone adherent; ripens late in July in Georgia.

    =Carter Large.= =1.= _Ohio Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 7. 1857.

A seedling from Pennsylvania, resembling Oldmixon Free. Tree hardy,
productive; flowers large; valuable as a market sort.

    =Caruth Late.= =1.= J. S. Kerr _Cat._ 5. 1898.

Caruth Late was introduced by J. S. Kerr, Sherman, Texas. The variety
is very prolific, bright yellow, and a freestone.

    =Catharine.= =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 107, Pl. 33 fig. 6. 1729.
    =2.= _Pom. Mag._ =1=:9, Pl. 1828. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 28.
    1875.

    _Catharinen-Lackpfirsich._ =4.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:216. 1858.

This is an old variety long grown in England and France, in the latter
country as La Belle Catharine. The fruit is similar to Incomparable
but higher in flavor. It was placed on the list of fruits of the
American Pomological Society in 1875 where it remained until 1897.
Leaves crenate, with reniform glands; flowers small, reddish; fruit
large, roundish, surface uneven; color pale yellow, marbled with red;
flesh white, strongly red at the pit, very firm, juicy; stone clinging,
roundish-oval; ripens the last of September.

    =Catline.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 95. 1831.

Leaves with globose glands; flowers small; fruit of medium size, pale
yellow, blushed; stone adherent; ripens late in September.

    =Cécile.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 48. 1876.

Glands reniform; flowers small.

    =Cécile Mignonne.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 53. 1876. =2.=
    Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:85, 86 fig. 1879.

A seedling raised by Charles Buisson, Grenoble, Isère, France. Tree
productive; glands small, globose; flowers large, pink; fruit above
medium in size, irregularly ovoid; skin tender, finely pubescent,
yellowish-white, streaked and spotted with carmine; flesh white,
faintly tinged at the stone, melting, juicy, sugary; of first quality;
stone ovoid, free; matures early in August.

    =Célestin Port.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:86, 87 fig. 1879.

A variety named after Célestin Port, Angers, Maine-et-Loire, France,
about 1870. Tree productive; glands very small, globose; flowers of
medium size, deep pink; fruit large, globular, flattened at the ends;
suture narrow; skin thick, tough, heavily pubescent, greenish-yellow,
with a dull red blush; flesh white, firm but melting, stained at the
stone, very juicy, vinous; stone large, roundish-oval, free; matures
early in August.

    =Centennial.= =1.= _Ont. Sta. Rpt._ =1=:22. 1894. =2.= _Can.
    Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =1=:13. 1898.

Centennial is a strong, round-topped grower; fruit large and late.

    =Chalmer Yellow Free.= =1.= _Mo. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 178. 1903.

A variety grown in Illinois; said to be earlier, larger, and better
than Elberta. It reproduces itself from seed.

    =Champion (of Michigan).= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =143=:187.
    1897. =2.= _U. S. D. A. Yearbook_ 479. 1908.

This is an early variety which originated with Eugene Gibson in
western Michigan and was introduced by him about 1887. The variety was
subject to mildew and the fruit proved to be of so little value that
the sort was soon dropped from cultivation. The leaves are serrate
and the stone clings. Although very different from the well-known
Champion of Illinois, it was at first sold for the latter, much to the
disappointment of buyers.

    =Chancellor.= =1.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ No. 14. 1752. =2.=
    Brookshaw _Pom. Brit._ =1=:Pl. 30 fig. 1. 1817. =3.= Lindley
    _Guide Orch. Gard._ 255, 256. 1831. =4.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._
    =6=:88 fig., 89. 1879.

    _Stewards Late Galande._ =5.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 97. 1831.

    _English Chancellor._ =6.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =1=:188, 189.
    1831.

    _Kleinblühender Kanzlerpfirsich._ =7.= Dochnahl _Führ.
    Obstkunde_ =3=:214. 1858.

This peach was named after Chancellor Pierre Seguier, Paris, France, in
whose garden it grew about 1670. Leaves crenate, with reniform glands;
flowers small, reddish; fruit large, oval, distinctly sutured; skin
pale yellow, mottled with dark crimson; flesh yellowish-white, stained
at the pit, juicy, melting; stone oblong, tapering, free; ripens the
middle of September.

    =Chapman.= =1.= Little _Price List_ 2. 1897.

Chapman resembles Late Crawford of which it is a seedling. Introduced
by W. S. Little and Company, Rochester, New York.

    =Charles Ingouf.= =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 113. 1906.

Named after Charles Ingouf, a nephew of the pomologist, Charles Baltet,
Troyes, France, in whose nursery this seedling was found. Fruit large,
early, blushed with carmine on a creamy ground; ripens between Amsden
and Hale Early.

    =Charles Rongé.= =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:81, 82, fig. 39.
    1866-73.

Charles Rongé was introduced by a M. Galopin, Liege, Belgium. Glands
small, globose; flowers of medium size; fruit large, spherical,
compressed at the ends; noticeably sutured; skin tender, covered with
short pubescence, pale green, blushed with intense carmine; flesh white
to the pit, melting, sugary; first quality; stone small for the size of
fruit, ovoid, semi-free; ripens early in August.

    =Chas. Wood.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 404. 1894.

Grown in Canada.

    =Charlotte.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1909. =2.= Waugh
    _Am. Peach Orch._ 200. 1913.

Charlotte should not be confused with the yellow-fleshed Early
Charlotte. This variety is said to have originated in Europe and is a
large, oval, white-fleshed freestone, ripening in early mid-season; it
was added to the American Pomological Society's fruit-list in 1909.

    =Chartreux.= =1.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 67, 68. 1867.

Chartreux was obtained from seed of either Brugnon Musque or Brugnon
des Chartreux, planted in 1859. Tree vigorous; glands reniform; flowers
very small; fruit medium to large, roundish, depressed; skin very
pubescent, yellowish, streaked with dark red; flesh greenish-white, red
at the pit; stone free, oval, roundish at the base; ripens the last of
August.

    =Chase Early.= =1.= R. G. Chase _Cat._ 19, Pl. 1900.

Chase Early is a seedling of Mountain Rose according to R. G. Chase,
Geneva, New York. On the Station grounds the fruit ripens with Elberta.
Leaves large, with small, globose glands; flowers small, dark pink
at the edge of the petals; fruit large, roundish-oblate; skin tough,
thick, creamy-white, with a lively red blush and a few dull splashes;
flesh white except at the pit, melting, juicy, sprightly; quality good;
stone oval.

    =Chazotte.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 41. 1876.

Chazotte is productive, vigorous; glands reniform; fruit very large,
irregular in outline; flesh red at the pit, melting, juicy; ripens at
the end of September.

    =Chelcie Cling.= =1.= _Cult. & Count. Gent._ =47=:513. 1882.

This variety, which reproduces itself from seed, is a seedling of
Oldmixon Cling.

    =Cherokee.= =1.= _Mo. State Fr. Sta. Rpt._ 12. 1905-06.

Fruit a straw-yellow color with a brownish-red blush; semi-free; ripens
the latter part of July.

    =Cherry Peach.= =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 582. 1629. =2.=
    Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 30. 1803.

    _Pêche Cerise._ =3.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:25, 26, Pl.
    15. 1768. =4.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=:No. 38, Pl. 1846.

    _Kirschpfirsche._ =5.= Christ _Handb._ 602, 603. 1817.

Fruit small, roundish, with a deep suture and a large, pointed apex;
skin the color of wax, with a cherry-red blush, sometimes with very
fine pubescence; flesh citron-yellow, fine, melting, rather insipid;
ripens the first of September.

    =Chevreuse.= =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 106, Pl. 33 fig. 1. 1729.

    _Belle Chevreuse._ =2.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:22, 23.
    1768. =3.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=:No. 30, Pl. 1846.

    _Schöne Peruvianische._ =4.= Liegel _Anweisung_ 69. 1822.

    _Schöner peruanischer Lackpfirsich._ =5.= Dochnahl _Führ.
    Obstkunde_ =3=:213. 1858.

    _Chevreuse Hâtive._ =6.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:91, 92 fig.,
    93. 1879.

Chevreuse is an old French sort, Nicolas de Bonnefond having mentioned
it in 1665. In 1768 Duhamel failed to recognize the presence of the
glands, thus causing some confusion between this and the variety
he describes as Chevreuse Hâtive. Leaves crenate, with reniform
glands; flowers medium in size; fruit of medium size, elongated; skin
greenish-white, marbled and streaked in the sun; flesh white except
beneath the blush and at the stone, melting, sweet, agreeable; stone
free, large; ripens early in September.

    =Chevreuse Clingstone.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:33. 1832.

A variety received by W. R. Prince from the Mediterranean region. Fruit
of good size, oval, greenish-yellow; ripens at the end of September.

    =Chevreuse à Feuilles Cloquées.= =1.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_
    53. 1867.

    _Freestone._ =2.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185. 1883.

Although resembling Late Purple, this variety is distinct. Tree
vigorous; glands reniform; flowers very small, deep pink; fruit large,
irregular in outline; skin heavily pubescent, tender, deep red on a
yellow ground; flesh white except at the stone, melting, juicy; stone
elliptical, free; ripens late in August.

    =Chevreuse Hâtive.= =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:21, 22.
    1768. =2.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=:No. 31, Pl. 1846.

    _Frühe Peruvianerin._ =3.= Liegel _Syst. Anleit._ 179. 1825.

    _Früher peruanischer Lackpfirsich._ =4.= Dochnahl _Führ.
    Obstkunde_ =3=:212. 1858.

Chevreuse Hâtive, although very similar to Chevreuse, is here listed
separately. Some authors, including Christ and Leroy, combine the two
varieties. The Chevreuse Hâtive ripens from the middle of August to the
beginning of September.

    =Chevreuse Tardive.= =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:24,
    25, Pl. XIV. 1768. =2.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =1=:178. 1831. =3.=
    Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:93, 94 fig., 95. 1879.

    _Später peruanischer Lackpfirsich._ =4.= Dochnahl _Führ.
    Obstkunde_ =3=:212. 1858.

This peach is often called Pourprée because of its color but it should
not be confused with the old Late Purple. Tree vigorous, productive;
glands reniform; flowers small, rose-colored; fruit large, roundish,
often compressed; suture distinct, deep; with a mamelon tip at apex;
skin thick, pale yellow, spotted and washed with reddish-purple; flesh
white except about the pit, melting, fibrous, juicy, sweet, pleasing;
stone elongated, free; matures at the end of September.

    =Chick Early Cling.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 75. 1873.

This variety originated with I. W. & R. S. Chick, Newberry, South
Carolina. Flesh white, vinous, juicy; ripens with Tillotson or before.

    =Chili No. 2.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =104=:88. 91. 1894. =2.=
    _Ibid._ =169=:210. 1899.

    _Engle-Chili._ =3.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:40 fig., 41.
    1910.

This is a seedling of Chili raised by C. C. Engle, Paw Paw, Michigan.
Tree vigorous, spreading, productive; flowers small; fruit large,
roundish-oval; cavity deep; apex prominent; skin thick, yellow, with
a bright red cheek; flesh yellow, red at the pit, fine-grained,
moderately juicy, tender, mild but rich; quality good; stone long,
oval, pointed, free; season the last of September.

    =Chili No. 3.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =104=:88, 91. 1894. =2.=
    _Ibid._ =169=:210. 1899.

This is another seedling of the same origin as Chili No. 2. Tree
moderately strong, spreading; flowers small or medium; fruit medium
in size, roundish, slightly oblong, compressed; suture indistinct;
apex not prominent; skin yellow, with a dark red cheek; flesh yellow,
slightly red at the pit, moderately juicy, tender, mild, sweet; quality
fair to good; pit large, oval, pointed, free; season the last of
September.

    =Chilian.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 291. 1854.

This is an American peach of unknown origin. Fruit of medium size,
yellowish-white, with a red cheek, lacking in flavor; freestone; season
September.

    =Chilow.= =1.= Ramsey _Cat._ 9. 1909.

According to F. T. Ramsey and Son, Austin, Texas, Chilow is a
yellow-fleshed seedling of Chinese Cling, which ripens at this Station
the latter part of September. Tree vigorous, moderately productive;
glands reniform; flowers appearing in mid-season, large, showy;
fruit medium in size, oblong-oval; suture deeper at the cavity,
extending beyond the apex; skin thin, tender, with coarse pubescence,
lemon-yellow, with a faint, dull blush near the cavity; flesh yellow,
tinged at the pit, coarse, meaty, juicy, mild; fair in quality; stone
below medium in size, oval, flattened, clinging.

    =Chilson.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:33. 1910.

N. and C. Chilson, Battle Creek, Michigan, first exhibited this peach
in 1870. Described as a yellow-fleshed clingstone, of medium size.

    =Chinese Blood.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:816. 1896.

Chinese Blood is of unknown origin; the fruit resembles Chinese Cling
in flavor. Tree vigorous, moderately productive; fruit small, ovate,
with an acute apex; color yellowish-green, with a red blush; flesh
clinging, moderately sweet, with a pleasant, vinous flavor; ripens in
Texas the first of July.

    =Chinese Crooked.= =1.= Fulton _Peach Cult._ 202. 1908.

A variety of unknown origin; so named because of its crooked fruits.
The seed from which it sprang is supposed to have been brought from
China. The fruit is very sweet but so small and unattractive as to
be worthless. Grown under glass as dwarf trees, the variety forms an
attractive ornamental.

    =Chinese Peach.= =1.= _Gard. & For._ =5=:438, 439, fig. 72.
    1892.

Peach-pits were sent to Charles S. Sargent, Arnold Arboretum, Jamaica
Plains, Massachusetts, in 1879 from China and from one of these grew
this peach. The tree is very vigorous and hardy. The fruit has a
thick skin, white, juicy flesh; is of good quality and a freestone.
Sargent believes the variety may be valuable in breeding a new race of
exceptionally hardy peaches.

    =Chisolm.= =1.= _Tex. Nur. Cat._ 4. 1913.

The Texas Nursery Company, Sherman, Texas, describes this variety as
a yellow freestone grown by W. H. Chisolm, Grayson County, Texas; it
ripens after Elberta.

    =Christiana.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 603. 1869. =2.=
    _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:810. 1896. =3.= _Md. Sta. Bul._
    =159=:155. 1911.

Downing speaks of a white-fleshed Christiana from Pomaria, South
Carolina. Other pomologists say it has yellow flesh. On the Station
grounds the tree is vigorous and only moderately productive. Glands
small, globose; flowers appear in mid-season, small; petals edged with
a deep pink; fruit large, roundish-oval, with a beaked apex, angular;
cavity deep; suture shallow; skin tough, covered with fine pubescence,
golden-yellow, washed with deep red and with a few splashes; flesh
light yellow, tinged with red about the pit, juicy, firm, stringy,
sprightly; quality good; stone free, large, ovate, plump; matures the
third week in September.

    =Christmas Seedling.= =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =12=:612. 1893.

Received at this Station in 1893 from Warren Hartle, Covington, Ohio.

    =Citry à Fruit Blanc.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 392. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Clara.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Bul._ =62=:511, 512. 1902.

Clara is a seedling of Waldo raised by T. K. Godbey, Waldo, Florida.
Fruit large, roundish-oblong; suture nearly lacking; apex rounded,
oblique, with a very small tip; skin velvety, yellowish-red in the sun;
flesh firm, white, melting, juicy, with a slight almond flavor; quality
very good; stone large, oval, pointed, free; ripens early.

    =Clara Mayer.= =1.= _Guide Prat._ 43. 1895.

Tree productive; glands reniform; flowers double; fruit large,
roundish-oval; skin greenish-yellow, faintly blushed where exposed;
flesh greenish-yellow, juicy; freestone; an ornamental.

    =Clarissa.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:811. 1896.

Clarissa seems to be well thought of in Texas, where it originated,
but at Geneva it is unproductive; fruit of good quality. Glands large,
reniform; flowers appear in mid-season, small; petals edged with
dark pink; fruit above medium in size, oval-cordate, halves unequal,
bulged at the apex; skin tough, covered with short, thick pubescence,
golden-yellow mingled with lively red which deepens on the exposed
side; flesh yellow, stained at the pit, juicy, rather coarse and
stringy, sweet, pleasing; stone below medium in size, oval, drawn in
about the base, plump, semi-free; ripens the second half of September.

    =Clark Early.= =1.= _U. S. Pat. Off. Rpt._ 257. 1854.

Originated with Lewis Clark, St. Louis, Missouri. Said to be one of the
earliest to ripen. Tree a slow grower, productive; fruit small, of rich
flavor.

    =Clarke.= =1.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 194. 1849.

Clarke originated with A. Clarke, Sherburne, New York; fruit very
large, roundish, yellow, blushed with red; flesh yellow except at the
stone, juicy, sugary, aromatic; ripens September 10th.

    =Claudine Willermoz.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 392. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Cleffey Allen.= =1.= _Ont. Sta. Rpt._ =1=:20. 1894. =2.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:210. 1899.

Tree strong, upright, fairly productive; glands reniform; flowers
small; fruit medium to large, roundish, with a broad, deep cavity;
suture indistinct; skin strongly pubescent, yellow, blushed with
brownish-red; flesh juicy, tender, mild, not rich; quality good; pit
oval, plump, pointed, free; ripens the middle of September.

    =Clémence Isaure.= =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:47, 48, fig. 22.
    1866-73. =2.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:96, 97 fig. 1879.

Barthère Brothers, Toulouse, Haute-Garonne, France, first fruited
this variety in 1854. Later it was named in honor of Clémence Isaure.
Glands globose; flowers small, with an intense rose-color; fruit large,
globular, halves unequal, with a mamelon tip at the apex; suture
distinct; skin tender, whitish-yellow, washed with carmine; flesh
yellow, stained at the pit, melting, juicy, sugary; stone free, large,
roundish-oval, plump; matures early in September.

    =Cleveland I.= =1.= _Peachland Nur. Cat._ 11. 1892.

Said to have originated at Salisbury, Maryland. The fruit excels
Fox with which it ripens, according to the catalog of the Peachland
Nurseries, Seaford, Delaware.

    =Cleveland II.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:95. 1901.

Cleveland is a seedling raised and introduced by J. F. Lyendecker,
Frelsburg, Texas, about 1881. The tree came up between Thurber and
Onderdonk trees; it was named after President Cleveland. Fruit large,
cream-colored; clingstone; ripens with Honey.

    =Clifton Cling.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =152=:196. 1898. =2.=
    _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:234. 1898.

Tree low and spreading in growth, vigorous; leaves small; glands
reniform; fruit greenish-yellow, faintly blushed with carmine; flesh
greenish-yellow, red at the pit, granular, subacid; quality poor;
ripens in Georgia the middle of August; very subject to rot.

    =Clifton Park.= =1.= Wiley _Cat._ 16. 1899. =2.= _Mich. Sta.
    Sp. Bul._ =30=:14. 1905.

William Palmer, Saratoga County, New York, first exhibited this
seedling at the State Fair in 1897. The trees at this Station are not
productive. Tree hardy, vigorous; glands reniform; flowers appear
early, large, showy, pale pink; fruit of medium size, roundish-oval,
bulged near the apex; suture shallow; skin thin, with short, thick
pubescence, pale yellow, blushed with dark, dull red; flesh white,
tinged at the pit, juicy, stringy, pleasing, sweet; quality good; stone
with a slight clinging tendency, above medium in size, plump; ripens
the second week in August.

    =Clingman May.= =1.= _La. Sta. Bul._ =27=:942. 1894. =2.=
    _Ibid._ =112=:30. 1908.

A large, white-fleshed clingstone; early but not very desirable.

    =Clinton.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 199. 1841. =2.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 473. 1845.

An American variety of second quality. Glands globose; fruit medium
in size, roundish; suture nearly lacking; skin pale yellowish-white,
striped with dull red; flesh scarcely stained at the stone, juicy;
ripens the last of August.

    =Cobb Mignonne.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 99. 1831.

Listed in the reference as having globose glands.

    =Cobbler.= =1.= _Okla. Sta. Rpt._ 61. 1898-99. =2.= Harrison
    _Cat._ 20. 1904.

    _Yellow Cobbler._ =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 161. 1881.

From Grayson County, Texas. Large, yellow, freestone, ripening with
Smock.

    =Coe Golden Cling.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:64.
    1900.

A strong grower but does not ripen its fruit in Canada.

    =Coggin Early.= =1.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._ =11=:7. 1890.

Flowers large; fruit medium in size; flesh white, firm, semi-clinging;
matures early in June.

    =Coigneau.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:97, 98 fig. 1879.

Originated by P. J. Berckmans, Augusta, Georgia, but not described by
American writers. Leaves with large, reniform glands; flowers small,
with an intense rose-color; fruit of medium size, irregularly globular;
suture distinct; skin thick, yellow, washed and striped with carmine;
flesh orange-yellow, red at the pit, fibrous, melting, juicy, resembles
an apricot in flavor; stone small, plump, free; ripens early in August.

    =Cole.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 44. 1891.

    _Cole Early._ =2.= _Ibid._ 32. 1887.

    _Cole Early Red._ =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 473. 1845. =4.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 78. 1862.

Cole appeared on the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society in
1862 as Cole Early Red but was dropped in 1891. Glands globose; flowers
small; fruit of medium size, roundish; skin almost entirely overlaid
with red; flesh white, melting, very sprightly; freestone; ripens early
in August.

    =Cole Large Yellow.= =1.= _Gard. Chron._ 1251. 1864.

Listed as an undesirable variety introduced into England from America.

    =Cole White.= =1.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 55, 56. 1867.

According to Carrière this variety is distinct from Cole White
Melocoton. Tree vigorous; flowers very small; glands reniform; fruit
large, roundish, with a slight suture; skin yellowish-white, with a
purplish-red blush; flesh yellowish-white, slightly stained with red at
the pit, tender yet firm, juicy, very sweet; quality good; stone oval,
free; ripens in France the first of September.

    =Cole White Melocoton.= =1.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 299. 1849.

This peach is thought by most pomologists to be identical with Morris
White but according to T. Hancock, in the American Fruit Culturist, it
is distinct, the peaches being larger, heavier, rounder and ripening
two weeks later than Morris White.

    =Coleman.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:804. 1896. =2.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 36. 1909.

Coleman is a variety of the Honey type originated by Thomas Coleman,
Rockport, Texas. It appeared on the fruit-list of the American
Pomological Society in 1909. Tree vigorous, productive; glands both
reniform and round; fruit medium in size, ovate, cream-colored, with a
red cheek; flesh white, sweet; freestone; ripens with Climax.

    =Colerane.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 211. 1676.

"Colerane peach is a good red peach."

    =Colmar.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:179. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Colon.= =1.= _Glen St. Mary Nur. Cat._ 11. 1900. =2.= _Fla.
    Sta. Bul._ =73=:143. 1904. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1909.

This is a seedling of Honey which was originated by G. L. Taber, Glen
Saint Mary, Florida, about 1892. Fruit large, roundish-oblong; suture
distinct; skin thin, tender, finely pubescent; flesh white, streaked
with red at the stone, juicy, spicy, subacid; quality very good; stone
large, elliptical, sharply pointed, free; ripens in Florida the last of
June.

    =Colonel Ansley.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 93. 1831.

Resembles Barrington, the two being listed as the same by some writers.

    =Colonel McFarland.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =24=:338. 1882.

A seedling of Late Crawford originating in 1874 near Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania. Tree strong, vigorous, spreading; fruit large, yellow,
with a red cheek; flesh juicy, rich, high in quality; freestone; ripens
the middle of October.

    =Colonel Tom Ruffin.= =1.= Van Lindley _Cat._ 16. 1892.

An early, white-fleshed clingstone, ripening about July 20th, according
to the catalog of the J. Van Lindley Company, Pomona, North Carolina.

    =Columbia.= =1.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 226, fig. 10. 1817.
    =2.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:19, 20. 1832. =3.= Downing _Fr.
    Trees Am._ 491. 1845. =4.= Hooper _W. Fr. Book_ 216, 217. 1857.
    =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 78. 1862. =6.= _Am. Jour. Hort._
    =3=:343. 1868. =7.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:99 fig., 100. 1879.

    _Virginia._ =8.= _Mo. Bd. Agr. Rpt._ =1=:411. 1865.

This singular peach was raised more than a century ago by William Coxe
from a pit brought to New Jersey from Georgia. While it reproduces
itself from seed with considerable exactness, most of the seedlings
show variations in shape and color. Nurserymen have, therefore, grown
many different types but all having the general characteristics of the
original fruit. The American Pomological Society placed Columbia in
its fruit-list in 1862 where it has since remained. Tree moderately
hardy and productive; glands reniform; fruit large, round, broad and
considerably depressed, with a distinct suture; skin rough, thick,
dingy red, sprinkled with spots and streaks of darker red; flesh
yellow, often with a red streak next the skin, rich, juicy, melting,
with the texture of a very ripe pineapple; quality good; freestone;
season the last of September.

    =Columbus June.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 610. 1857.

Fruit medium to large, flattened, with a shallow suture; skin pale
yellowish-white, with a rich red cheek; flesh red at the pit, melting,
juicy, pleasant-flavored; good; stone free; ripens in the South the
middle of June.

    =Comet.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =29=:52. 1863. =2.= Hogg _Fruit
    Man._ 216. 1866. =3.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:811. 1896.

Comet was raised from a pit of Salwey by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth,
England, fruiting for the first time in 1857, when the great comet of
that year was in its zenith. Glands reniform; flowers small; fruit
roundish; skin yellow, with a crimson cheek; flesh yellow, melting,
juicy; stone free; matures early in October.

    =Comice d'Angers.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:100 fig., 101.
    1879.

    _Jaune du Comice._ =2.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:195, 196, fig. 96.
    1866-73.

    _Hâtive de Gascogne._ =3.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 52, 219. 1876.

    _Madeleine du Comice._ =4.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186. 1883.

This variety, received from Angers, France, is grown commercially in
that locality. Glands both reniform and globose; flowers small, with
deep rose-color; fruit large, spherical, ending in a mamelon tip at
the apex; suture distinct; skin tender, heavily pubescent, yellow,
marbled and striped with purple on a deep carmine blush; flesh stained
at the pit, melting, very juicy, sprightly; stone free, large, plump;
ripens at the end of August.

    =Comice de Bourbourg.= =1.= Brehaut _Peach Pruner_ 173. 1866.
    =2.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:101, 102 fig. 1879.

A seedling from Bourbourg, Nord, France, first fruiting about 1850.
Glands small, both reniform and globose; flowers of medium size; fruit
large, roundish-oval, distinctly sutured; skin tender, light yellow,
streaked with carmine; flesh white, melting, juicy, tinged about the
pit, sprightly; stone free; ripens the middle of September.

    =Compton Pure Gold.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 77. 1893.

Exhibited from Illinois at the World's Fair, in 1893.

    =Comte d'Ansembourg.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Comte de Neperg.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Comtesse de Hainaut.= =1.= _Ann. Pom. Belge_ =6=:79, 80, Pl.
    1858.

Of Belgian origin, being a seedling of Early Purple found near the
Royal Chateau at Laeken. Flowers large; fruit large, roundish; suture
distinct but not deep; skin clear yellow; flesh yellowish-white except
at the pit; stone large, free; ripens the first half of September.

    =Comtesse de Montijo.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 53. 1876. =2.=
    _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 524. 1906.

Obtained about 1848 by a gardener, Gauthier, in Paris, France. Tree
vigorous, productive; glands very small, globose; flowers of medium
size; fruit large, roundish; skin creamy-white, with a blush, often
streaked; flesh melting, sprightly; ripens the middle of September.

    =Con Cling.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 26. 1873.

Con Cling appeared on the fruit-list of the American Pomological
Society from 1873 until 1883 without a description. Recommended for
Oregon.

    =Condor.= =1.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =28=:470. 1875. =2.= Lauche
    _Ergänzungsband_ 701 fig., 702. 1883.

A large and beautiful seedling of Early Silver. Tree vigorous,
productive; glands reniform; flowers of medium size; fruit very large,
globular, halves equal, distinctly sutured; skin greenish-yellow,
blushed with pale red; flesh white, tinged at the stone, juicy,
melting; stone oval, truncate at the base; ripens in August.

    =Congress.= =1.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 17. 1820. =2.=
    _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 95. 1831. =3.= Prince _Pom. Man._
    =2=:27. 1832. =4.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 66, 67. 1867.

    _Béguine de Termonde?_ =5.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 21, 215. 1876.

First cultivated by Alfred Livingston, Westchester County, New York.
Leaves with reniform glands; flowers of medium size; fruit large, oval,
pale yellow, blushed with red; clingstone; ripens in September.

    =Conkling.= =1.= Ellwanger & Barry _Cat._ 33. 1879. =2.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1909.

E. M. Conkling, Parma Corners, New York, introduced this peach about
1877, having fruited it first in 1873. The fruits are small and the
trees unproductive at Geneva. It was added to the fruit-list of the
American Pomological Society in 1909. Leaves with small, globose
glands; flowers late; fruit below medium in size, roundish-oval, bulged
near the apex; halves unequal; apex with a mamelon, recurved tip;
skin thin, tender, with long, thick pubescence, yellow, mottled with
dark red over a lighter blush; flesh stained at the pit, juicy, firm,
stringy, sweet, pleasant; pit free; ripens early in September.

    =Connecticut.= =1.= Hale _Cat._ 29. 1898. =2.= _Ont. Sta. Rpt._
    =6=:44. 1899.

Connecticut originated at South Glastonbury, Connecticut, about 1885
from a seed of Pratt pollinized by Chili. The trees are unproductive
at this Station. Tree willowy in habit; glands small, both reniform
and globose; flowers appearing in mid-season, small, edged with deep
pink; fruit medium in size, roundish-cordate; apex noticeably mamelon,
recurved; skin thin, tough, adherent, thickly pubescent, orange-yellow,
blushed with dull red; flesh tinged at the pit, rather firm, stringy,
sweet; quality good; stone free, small, ovate, plump, bulged near the
apex; ripens the last of August.

    =Connett.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1909.

    _Connett Early._ =2.= _N. C. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 64. 1893. =3.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 32. 1899. =4.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:96.
    1901.

Connett originated as Connett Southern Early with Rev. Alfred
Connett, McLeansville, North Carolina, about 1880. In 1889 it was
listed by the American Pomological Society as Connett Early, the
name being changed in 1909 to Connett. At this Station it is a
shy bearer; ripens the middle of August. Tree willowy in growth;
glands reniform; flowers appearing in mid-season, large; fruit above
medium in size, roundish-oval; suture shallow; skin thin, tough,
creamy-yellow, slightly blushed with dark red; flesh white except at
the pit, firm, stringy, sweet, juicy; quality fair; stone nearly free,
oval-elliptical, pointed at the ends.

    =Connor White.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 75. 1873.

    _Conner Cling._ =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 32. 1883.

Connor White is a southern variety which originated in Mississippi.
The American Pomological Society listed it from 1883 until 1889. Fruit
medium in size, slightly oblong, with a small, acute apex; skin white,
nearly covered with crimson; flesh white to the stone, juicy, vinous,
subacid; clingstone; matures the last of June in Mississippi.

    =Conover.= =1.= _Mo. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 422. 1905.

Conover is one of the best hardy peaches in Missouri.

    =Cook Late.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 32. 1887.

    _Cook Late White._ =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 28. 1877.

A variety of American origin. Entered on the fruit-list of the American
Pomological Society in 1877 where it remained until 1897. Fruit of
medium size, white, freestone; ripens late.

    =Cook Seedling.= =1.= _Ohio Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 6, 7. 1857.

A seedling resembling Late Crawford grown by J. S. Cook, Walnut Hills,
Ohio.

    =Cooley Mammoth.= =1.= Lovett _Cat._ 33. 1891. =2.= _Can. Exp.
    Farms Rpt._ 451. 1896.

Originated in Indiana where the fruit attracted attention because
of large size and handsome color. Flesh yellow, juicy, sprightly;
clingstone; ripens late in September.

    =Coolidge.= =1.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 191. 1849.

    _Cooledge's Favorite._ =2.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 219, 220. 1832.
    =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 473. 1845. =4.= _Proc. Nat. Con.
    Fr. Gr._ 38, 51. 1848.

    _Coolidge's Favorite._ =5.= Hovey _Fr. Am._ =2=:49, 50, Pl.
    1851. =6.= Hooper _W. Fr. Book_ 216. 1857.

For many years Coolidge was a favorite in New England and in nearly
every orchard there were trees of this sort. Joshua Coolidge of
Watertown, Massachusetts, raised the variety. The fruit-lists in the
catalogs of the American Pomological Society from the first issue until
1899 contained the name of this peach. Fruit medium to large, roundish,
with a shallow suture; skin clear white, with a fine, mottled, crimson
cheek; flesh white, with red at the pit, melting, juicy, with a rich,
sweet, high flavor; freestone; season the last of August.

    =Coolidge Mammoth.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:211. 1899.

Tree vigorous; foliage crimped, with globose glands; flowers small;
fruit large, roundish-ovate; suture distinct; apex prominent; skin
bright yellow, with a bright blush; flesh red at the pit, juicy, mild,
vinous; pit large, oval, pointed, free; matures the middle of September.

    =Cooner.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 318. 1890.

A large-fruited, market variety from Allegan County, Michigan.

    =Cooper Early.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 95. 1831.

Leaves with globose glands; flowers small; fruit of medium size, pale
yellow; stone adherent; of third quality; ripens early in September.

    =Cooper Late.= =1.= _Peachland Nur. Cat._ 11. 1892.

Cooper Late originated at New Castle, Delaware, and is a large,
white-fleshed, productive peach, according to the catalog of the
Peachland Nurseries, Seaford, Delaware.

    =Cooper Mammoth.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 190. 1880.

A yellow peach found near South Haven, Michigan. The variety is
worthless because of unproductiveness.

    =Cooper Manet.= =1.= _N. Mex. Sta. Bul._ =30=:242. 1899.

A variety being tested in New Mexico.

    =Cora.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 41. 1877. =2.= _La. Sta.
    Bul._ =21=:614. 1893.

One of L. E. Berckmans seedlings of Lady Parham, from Rome, Georgia,
about 1873. Fruit small, round; skin creamy-white, splashed with dull
red; flesh white, stained at the stone, juicy, melting, subacid;
freestone; ripens at the end of September.

    =Cora Wright.= =1.= Fulton _Peach Cult._ 175. 1908.

A large, yellow peach from Caroline County, Maryland.

    =Corbeil.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:102, 103. 1879.

Corbeil is a name applied to peaches found near Corbeil, Seine-et-Oise,
France; mentioned first, according to Leroy, in 1540 by Charles
Estienne. Fruits pubescent, white, juicy.

    =Corlett.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 146. 1896.

Produced by a Mr. Corlett, Olinda, Ontario, Canada; resembles Amsden.
Fruit large, round; suture shallow; skin yellow, partly covered with
a pink blush; flesh pale yellow, juicy, sweet; stone medium in size,
free; ripens at the end of July.

    =Cornelia.= =1.= Harrison _Cat._ 19. 1912.

Listed by J. G. Harrison, Berlin, Maryland, as a vigorous, productive,
white-fleshed peach ripening at the end of July.

    =Corner.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 197. 1883. =2.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:211. 1899.

Originated by William Corner, Ganges, Michigan, where it is grown
locally. Tree vigorous; glands reniform; flowers small; fruit of medium
size, oval to ovate; suture distinct; skin brightly blushed on a yellow
ground; flesh red at the pit, moderately juicy, tender, mild but not
rich; pit free, oval, pointed; matures early in September.

    =Corosa.= =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 66. 1907.

According to the reference, Corosa ripens soon after Mamie Ross which
it excels.

    =Corriell.= =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 335. 1896.

A very hardy variety grown in southeastern Iowa.

    =Cothelstone Seedling.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 95. 1831.

Listed in this reference.

    =Coulombier.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 392. 1889.

Mentioned in this reference.

    =Countess.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 44. 1891. =2.= _La. Sta.
    Bul._ =27=:942. 1894. =3.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:811. 1896.
    =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1909.

Countess is a southern variety of unknown origin. It appeared on the
fruit-list of the American Pomological Society from 1891 to 1899,
reappearing in 1909. The fruit is white-fleshed, juicy, nearly free;
ripens early in July.

    =Counts.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 605. 1869. =2.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 28. 1877.

Counts originated with H. H. Counts, Lylesford, South Carolina. It
was on the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society from 1877
until 1891. Fruit large, white, blushed; flesh white, rich, juicy;
clingstone; matures in mid-season.

    =Coupers.= =1.= _Am. Gard._ =24=:414. 1903.

Coupers is a heavy bearer; skin white, with a blush; ripens late in
August.

    =Cowan Late.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 186. 1860. =2.= _Tex.
    Sta. Bul._ =39=:811. 1896.

Glands reniform; fruit very small, round; ripens in September.

    =Cox Cling.= =1.= _Wash. Bd. Hort. Rpt._ 140. 1891-92. =2.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 32. 1899.

Cox Cling appeared on the fruit-list of the American Pomological
Society from 1899 until 1909. It is listed as a medium-sized,
white-fleshed clingstone of fair quality; originated in Texas.

    =Cox October.= =1.= _U. S. Pat. Off. Rpt._ 298. 1855.

A choice variety grown at one time in Mississippi.

    =Cream.= =1.= _Kan. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 80. 1898.

E. T. Daniels, Kiowa, Kansas, grew Cream from a stone of Marcella. It
resembles Late Crawford in size and color; ripens October 15th.

    =Crimson Beauty I.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 161. 1881. =2.=
    _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:234. 1898.

Tree tall, erect; glands reniform; fruit of medium size, globular; skin
greenish-yellow, overspread with carmine; flesh white except at the
stone; clingstone; ripens at the middle of August.

    =Crimson Beauty II.= =1.= Bailey _Ann. Hort._ 184. 1892.

Tree with heavy, dark foliage; fruit large, highly colored; flesh firm,
fine; freestone; ripens in November.

    =Crimson Galande.= =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 217. 1866. =2.= Mas
    _Le Verger_ =7=:191, 192, fig. 94. 1866-73. =3.= Hogg _Fruit
    Man._ 441. 1884.

    _Crimson Mignonne._ =4.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =5=:188. 1863.

Crimson Galande is one of the many seedlings raised by Thomas Rivers,
Sawbridgeworth, England. Tree an abundant bearer; glands globose;
flowers small; fruit large, roundish, uneven in outline, faintly
sutured; skin almost entirely covered with very dark crimson; flesh
white, purple about the pit, melting, juicy, sprightly; stone free,
small, ovoid; ripens at the end of August.

    =Crockett.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:811. 1896.

    _Crockett Late White._ =2.= _Gard. Mon._ =2=:335 fig. 1860.
    =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 28. 1877.

    _Crockett Late._ =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 32. 1887.

Crockett originated in New Jersey and was once popular as a late,
market sort. In 1877, it was added to the fruit-list of the American
Pomological Society; in 1887, the name was changed to Crockett Late;
the variety was finally dropped in 1891. Glands reniform; fruit medium
to large, oblong, greenish-white, with an occasional blush; flesh pale,
sweet, not very juicy; freestone; ripens the last of September.

    =Crofts Golden.= =1.= _La. Sta. Bul._ =3=:44. 1890.

Listed by the Louisiana Experiment Station.

    =Cromwell Seedling.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =3=:280. 1861.

An early variety introduced by a Mr. Cromwell, Baltimore, Maryland.

    =Crothers.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 289. 1893. =2.= _Rural N.
    Y._ =59=:626 fig. 1900.

A Mr. Crothers of Neosho Falls, Kansas, found this variety on his
farm. On the Station grounds it is very similar to Oldmixon Free. Tree
fairly vigorous and productive; glands small, globose; flowers small,
appearing early; fruit above medium in size, roundish-oval, sometimes
oblique, angular; apex often with a recurved, mamelon tip; skin thin,
tough, with fine, short pubescence, creamy-white, mottled with dark
red; flesh white, stained about the pit, juicy, stringy, sprightly;
quality not as high as Oldmixon Free; stone nearly free, large, plump,
broadly oval, with a long point at the apex; ripens the last of
September.

    =Crown.= =1.= _Rea Flora_ 211. 1676.

Listed as a fair fruit ripening with Newington.

    =Cumberland.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 151. 1881. =2.= _Soc.
    Nat. Hort. France Pom._ 300 fig., 301. 1904.

An American variety but little known. Tree moderately vigorous,
productive; glandless; flowers large; fruit medium in size, somewhat
oblate; skin creamy-white, marbled with deep red; flesh white to the
stone, melting, juicy, sweet; quality very good; stone small, oval,
acutely pointed, nearly free; matures early in July.

    =Curtis.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:806. 1896. =2.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 32. 1899.

A southern variety named after Professor G. W. Curtis, College Station,
Texas. The American Pomological Society held it on its fruit-list
from 1899 until 1909. Tree vigorous, productive; glands globose; fruit
of medium size, round to slightly oblong; skin clear yellowish-white;
clingstone; matures early in July.

    =Cutter.= =1.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 194. 1849.

Cutter is very similar to Lincoln but is a few days earlier.

    =Dabezac.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 48. 1876.

Fruit medium in size, cordate; of first quality; ripens the last of
August.

    =Dad.= =1.= _Kan. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 50. 1901.

A seedling from F. G. Barker, Salina, Kansas.

    =Dagmar.= =1.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =9=:190. 1865. =2.= Hogg
    _Fruit Man._ 217. 1866.

A seedling of Albert raised by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England.
Glands round; flowers small; fruit round; suture shallow; skin very
tender, thickly pubescent, with a pale straw-colored ground, almost
entirely overlaid with crimson; flesh white, tender, vinous; freestone;
ripens in August.

    =Darby.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 75. 1873.

A seedling of the Heath type originated by I. W. and R. S. Chick,
Newberry, South Carolina. Fruit large, round, with a well-marked
suture; skin creamy-white, faintly washed with red; flesh white to the
stone, fine, juicy, aromatic; quality very good; clingstone; matures at
the end of October.

    =Daun.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 40. 1876.

Glands globose; flowers large; fruit large, heavy, roundish, regular
in outline; skin pale greenish-yellow, marbled with reddish-brown;
flesh fine, melting, very juicy, aromatic; ripens before the middle of
September.

    =David Hill.= =1.= _Cultivator_ 3rd Ser. =6=:283. 1858.

According to this reference, David Hill was at one time valuable in
western New York.

    =Davidson No. 1.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 113. 1880.

This variety was raised by M. B. Bateham, Painesville, Ohio. It is said
to ripen a few days earlier than Alexander. The fruit is of medium
size, attractive and equal in quality to most early peaches.

    =Davidson No. 2.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 113. 1880.

Another seedling raised by M. B. Bateham, Painesville, Ohio. Fruit
medium in size, attractive, as good in quality as other early peaches.
Ripens a few days later than the preceding sort.

    =Dawson.= =1.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._ =156=:132. 1911.

Dawson is not recommended in the reference given. Tree slow growing;
fruit of medium size, round; skin rich yellow; flesh yellow; flavor
excellent; ripens June 15th; a poor shipper.

    =Dawson Early.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 170. 1882.

A white-fleshed variety, little known in Michigan; glands globose;
flowers large; fruit roundish; ripens late in August; said to be free
from rot.

    =Day Yellow Free.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 311. 1889.

A California seedling ripening with and closely resembling Foster; a
good market variety.

    =De Citry.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =De Corsa Heath.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:97. 1892.

Grown at one time near Seaford, Delaware.

    =De Ferrières.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185. 1883.

Listed but not described.

    =De Gloria.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 97. 1831.

Listed in this reference.

    =De Grillet.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =De Halle.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:64. 1900.

A weak grower; planted in Canada.

    =D'Ispahan à Fleurs Simples.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185.
    1883.

Listed but not described.

    =De Napier.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:64. 1900.

A medium-vigorous variety grown in Canada.

    =De Thoissey.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =De Tondensis.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 199. 1841.

A large, moderately productive, first quality, red and white peach,
ripening in September.

    =De Trianon.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =De Tullias.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =20=:271. 1854.

"A variety of the Egyptian peach with larger fruit, surpassing the
original type."

    =De Zelhern.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 606. 1869.

Fruit of medium size, roundish; suture deep; skin downy, yellow, with
more or less bright red; flesh white, melting, juicy, sweet; freestone;
matures in August.

    =Deaconess.= =1.= _Can. Hort._ =23=:379, 380. 1900.

A yellow variety said to be immune from yellows.

    =Dean Orange.= =1.= Kan. Hort. Soc. _Peach, The_ 140. 1899.

Named after its originator, Martin Dean, Bavaria, Kansas, about 1875.
Another seedling that reproduces itself from seed.

    =Dean Red Free.= =1.= _Ohio Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 16. 1896-97.

Dean Brothers of southern Indiana originated this variety; flesh white,
freestone; ripens with Oldmixon Free.

    =December.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 634. 1887. =2.= Wickson
    _Cal. Fruits_ 318. 1889.

A white clingstone occasionally grown because of its extreme lateness.

    =Decker.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 201. 1908.

    _Buck Prolific._ =2.= _Ibid._ 318. 1889.

Decker is grown extensively for eastern shipment in Sutter and Butte
Counties, and in Vaca Valley, California.

    =Dekenhoven Pfirsich.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185. 1883.

    _Madeleine d'Ekenholen._ =2.= Carrière _Var Pêchers_ 80. 1867.

    _Madeleine Dekenhoven._ =3.= Decaisne _Jard. Fruit._ =7=:Pl.
    1872-75.

Tree moderately vigorous; branches slender; leaves devoid of glands;
flowers large; fruit large, roundish, slightly depressed at the base,
apex terminating in a small, mamelon tip; distinctly sutured; skin
tender, almost entirely overlaid with reddish-black; flesh white except
at the stone, melting, juicy, sweet; stone small, free; ripens the last
of August.

    =Delavan White.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 450. 1879. =2.=
    _Ibid._ 458. 1883.

Of American origin, but not generally known or valued. Glands round;
flowers small; fruits large, roundish-oval; skin white, with a red
cheek; freestone; ripens early in October.

    =Delaware.= =1.= Lovett _Cat._ 18. 1898. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 36. 1909.

Delaware, or Delaware Rareripe as it is sometimes called, originated in
Delaware as a seedling of Mountain Rose. The variety is unproductive
on the Station grounds. Tree large, vigorous; leaves large, with
small, globose glands; flowers appear in mid-season, small, edged with
deep pink; fruit medium in size, roundish-cordate, halves unequal;
skin thin, thickly pubescent, pale yellowish-white, blushed about
the cavity; flesh white, stained at the pit, coarse, stringy, sweet;
quality good but not high; stone free, small, oval, plump; ripens the
second half of August.

    =Deming.= =1.= _Cultivator_ 3rd Ser. =4=:146. 1856. =2.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1909.

    _Deming Orange._ =3.= _Ibid._ 28. 1875.

    _Deming September._ =4.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 24. 1876. =5.=
    _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:234. 1898.

Deming is a southern variety which was placed on the fruit-list of the
American Pomological Society in 1875 as Deming Orange, remaining until
1897, and reappearing as Deming in 1909. Tree open; glands reniform;
fruit large, oblate; flesh yellow; clingstone; ripens in mid-season.

    =Demouilles.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 55. 1876. =2.= Leroy
    _Dict. Pom._ =6=:106 fig., 107. 1879.

An ornamental peach originating with a M. Demouilles, Toulouse,
Haute-Garonne, France. Glands usually reniform; flowers small; fruit of
medium size, roundish, generally depressed at the base; suture shallow;
skin thick, orange-yellow, streaked and washed with deep red where
exposed; flesh intense yellow, tinged with red at the pit, melting,
juicy, vinous; stone free, small, ovoid, plump; ripens at the end of
September.

    =Dennis.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:29. 1895. =2.= _Ibid._
    =169=:211. 1899.

Tree strong, spreading, with drooping branches; glands globose; flowers
large; fruit of medium size, roundish; suture distinct, two-thirds
around; skin yellow; flesh yellow, juicy, tender, highly vinous; pit
large, roundish-oval, plump, free; ripens early in September.

    =Denton.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 45. 1897. =2.= _Del. Sta.
    Rpt._ =13=:96. 1901.

J. W. Kerr, Denton, Maryland, grew this peach in 1888 from a seed
of Early Beauty crossed with Elberta. Denton resembles Elberta very
closely and on the Station grounds ripens a week later. Tree large,
vigorous, moderately productive; glands large, reniform; flowers large;
fruit large, oval; cavity deep; skin tough, covered with thick, coarse
pubescence, lemon-yellow, with a few dark splashes; flesh yellow, with
red radiating from the stone, juicy, firm, sprightly but varying
in flavor; quality good; stone large, obovate, flattened, decidedly
bulged, nearly free; ripens the third week in September.

    =Désiré Vitry.= =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 463. 1903.

Listed in this reference.

    =Despot.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 211. 1676.

Listed as a yellow peach spotted with red.

    =Desprez.= =1.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=:No. 39, Pl. 1846.

Named after a M. Desprez, a judge at Alençon, Orne, France. Leaves
carry from two to four reniform glands; flowers large; fruit variable,
often large, roundish, with a small, mamelon tip at the apex; skin
smooth, thick, yellow; flesh white, melting, vinous; stone plump, oval,
pointed at the ends, free; ripens the last of August.

    =Desse Tardive.= =1.= _Jour. Hort._ N.S. =9=:250. 1865. =2.=
    Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:143, 144, fig. 70. 1866-73. =3.= Hogg
    _Fruit Man._ 218. 1866.

Desse Tardive was named after its originator, a M. Desse of Chantecoq,
Seine, France, about 1835. Glands round; flowers small; fruit large,
round, flattened at the top, deeply sutured; skin thin, greenish-white,
marbled with vermilion-red; flesh white, slightly colored with red at
the stone, melting, juicy, sweet; stone plump, nearly free; ripens at
the end of September.

    =Dewey Cling.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 91. 1899. =2.=
    Peyton-Barnes _Cat._ 19. 1912.

Dewey Cling originated with H. W. Jenkins, Boonville, Missouri, in
1898. Tree vigorous, healthy, upright yet spreading, hardy; fruit of
good size; skin smooth, creamy-white; flesh white, very juicy, rich; of
good quality; ripens in Missouri the middle of September.

    =Dey.= =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =41=:864, fig. 1882.

Named after a Mr. Dey, Newark, New Jersey, in whose yard it was found.
Fruit large, greenish-white; sweet, rich, juicy; freestone.

    =Di Carema Giallo.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 48. 1876.

A delicious, yellow peach from Italy.

    =Diamond.= =1.= _Ohio Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 50. 1888-89. =2.=
    _Ibid._ 16. 1896. =3.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:235. 1898.

Diamond originated in Athens County, Ohio. On the grounds of this
Station it closely resembles Orange Cling. Tree low, spreading; leaves
with globose glands; fruit large, globular; flesh pale yellow except at
the pit; clingstone; ripens the first of October.

    =Diana.= =1.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 221. 1817.

According to Coxe, Diana is a large, oblong clingstone, with white
flesh, ripening the first of September.

    =Dix.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 199. 1841.

A large, productive, first-rate peach.

    =Dixie.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 289. 1893.

Fruit above medium in size, roundish; cavity deep, abrupt; skin thin,
yellowish-white, with a blush; flesh white, slightly tinged at the
stone, firm, mildly, subacid, slightly bitter; stone oval, clinging.

    =Docteur Burkard.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 393. 1889.

Listed but not described.

    =Docteur Lucas.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 53. 1876.

Found at the Saint-Florian Abbey, Germany. Tree vigorous; fruit large,
roundish-oblate, blushed with deep red on a green ground; of first
quality; matures the middle of September.

    =Docteur Krans.= =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:117, 118, fig. 57.
    1866-73.

Introduced by a Dr. Krans, Liege, Belgium. Tree vigorous; glands
reniform; flowers large; fruit of medium size, roundish-oval, flattened
at the ends; suture pronounced; skin thin, tender, pale yellow, blushed
with intense purple where exposed; flesh white, tinged about the pit,
melting, juicy, sweet; of first quality; stone small, elliptical,
nearly free; ripens at the end of August.

    =Dr. Burton.= =1.= Munson _Cat._ 6. 1905-06.

According to T. V. Munson, Denison, Texas, this variety is a seedling
grown by Dr. E. L. Burton, Grayson County, Texas. In the Station
orchard it is a fairly good peach but not of superior merit. Tree
productive; glands globose, small; flowers appearing in mid-season,
large; fruit large, oval; cavity deep; apex often ends in a mamelon
tip; skin tough, creamy-yellow, with few splashes of dark, dull red
usually near the cavity; flesh white, with a trace of pink along the
suture, juicy, tender, stringy, sprightly; stone oval, with a long
point at the apex, plump; ripens just before Champion.

    =Dr. Cummings.= =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =61=:734. 1902.

A seedling of Early Crawford raised at Cayuga, New York, and
disseminated by H. S. Wiley of the same place; a yellow freestone
ripening about October 1st.

    =Dr. Graham White Freestone.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Rpt._
    =6=:412. 1826.

Fruit large, perfectly white; juice rich and sweet; stone small; ripens
the middle of September.

    =Dr. Hogg.= =1.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =9=:190. 1865.

This peach was grown by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, from
a French peach. Tree a strong grower, vigorous, productive; glands
reniform; flowers large; fruit large, round, with a distinct suture;
skin thin, tough, lemon-colored, faintly crimson where exposed; flesh
yellowish-white, deeply stained at the pit, firm but tender, sugary,
brisk; stone free; ripens in August.

    =Dr. Pilkington.= =1.= _Cal. Sta. Rpt._ 393. 1895-97.

An Oregon freestone seedling of promise.

    =Dr. Tomlinson.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:97. 1892.

Listed in this reference.

    =Domergue.= =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 156, Pl. 1889. =2.= _Guide Prat._
    42. 1895.

Originated near Marseilles, Bouches du Rhône, France, by a M. Domergue.
Tree vigorous, productive; glands globose; flowers of medium size;
fruit large, well colored; ripens early in August.

    =Donahoo.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 636. 1857.

From a Mr. Donahoo, Clark County, Georgia. Glands reniform; fruit very
large, roundish; suture visible around the entire fruit, deep on one
side; skin creamy-white, tinged with red in the sun; flesh white to
the stone, very juicy, excelling Heath Cling in tenderness and flavor;
clingstone; ripens the second week in September in Georgia.

    =Donegal.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 25. 1894.

Fruit large, roundish; cavity large and deep; skin thin, tenacious,
velvety, yellow, sprinkled with dark red; flesh yellow, tinged at the
pit, tender, melting, juicy, subacid; quality good to above; stone
small, oval, free; season follows Smock.

    =Dorsetshire Mignonne.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 99. 1831.

A large-sized fruit of second quality ripening at the end of September;
glands reniform; flowers small; skin dark red on a pale yellow ground;
flesh melting.

    =Dorothy.= =1.= _Glen St. Mary Nur. Cat._ 12. 1901. =2.= _Fla.
    Sta. Bul._ =62=:512. 1902. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1909.

A seedling of Angel grown by G. H. Norton, Eustis, Florida. In 1909,
it was listed by the American Pomological Society. Fruit large, nearly
round; flesh yellow, rich, subacid; freestone; ripens early in July in
Florida.

    =Double Blanche de Fortune.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185.
    1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Double Cramoisie de Fortune.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185.
    1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Double Jaune.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:165, 166, fig. 19.
    1883.

Originated in the vicinity of Montauban, Tarn-et-Garonne, France.
Leaves with reniform glands; flowers medium in size; fruit large,
roundish-oval, ending in a mamelon tip; deeply sutured; skin thin,
tender, canary-yellow, nearly covered with an intense reddish-brown;
flesh yellow to the stone, melting, juicy, with an apricot flavor; of
first quality; stone small for the size of fruit, oval, freestone;
ripens at the end of August.

    =Double Mountain.= =1.= Brookshaw _Pom. Brit._ =1=:Pl. 26.
    1817. =2.= Christ _Handb._ 592. 1817. =3.= Lindley _Guide Orch.
    Gard._ 246. 1831.

    _Sion._ =4.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ 1752.

    _Doppelter Bergpfirsich._ =5.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:198. 1858.

An excellent French variety very similar to Noblesse but ripening a
week earlier. Leaves doubly serrate, glandless, not as susceptible to
mildew as most French varieties; flowers large; fruit of medium size,
roundish, flattened at the apex; skin greenish-white, marbled with deep
red on a soft red blush; flesh white to the stone, melting, juicy,
highly flavored; stone mucronate, rugged, free; ripens from the middle
to the last of August.

    =Down Easter.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 283. 1854.

    _Hall Down-Easter._ =2.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 196, 197. 1849.

This variety originated many years ago with M. Hall, Portland, Maine.
It has long since passed from cultivation. Tree hardy and productive;
fruit large, roundish, with a deep suture; skin yellow, with a broad,
red cheek; quality fair; season the last of September.

    =Downer.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =19=:115. 1877.

A seedling of the old Red Rareripe, grown at Newburyport,
Massachusetts; never disseminated.

    =Dowling.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:811. 1896.

    _Dowling June._ =2.= _Ibid._ =8=:34. 1889.

Tree vigorous, productive; glandless; fruit of medium size, roundish,
with a slight projection at the apex; color creamy, with a red cheek;
flavor subacid; clingstone; matures in Texas about July 8th.

    =Downing.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =17=:270. 1875. =2.= _Mich. Hort.
    Soc. Rpt._ 462. 1885. =3.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 526. 1906.

Downing originated about 1870 with H. M. Engle, Lancaster County,
Pennsylvania, from a pit of Hale Early. Tree productive; fruit of
medium size, roundish, with a distinct suture; skin greenish-white,
mottled with red; flesh white, juicy, melting, sweet; quality good;
ripens from the first to the middle of July.

    =Drain Seedling.= =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 491. 1908.

One of the early seedlings planted in Iowa.

    =Drap d'Or.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =20=:271. 1854. =2.= _Ann. Pom.
    Belge_ =3=:1, Pl. 1855.

    _Drap d'or Esperen._ =3.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 52, 217. 1876.

A variety of Belgian origin. Tree moderately vigorous, productive;
glands small, round; fruit large, roundish, depressed; skin thin,
clear yellow, with spots of carmine; noticeably sutured; flesh
whitish-yellow, colored at the pit, fine, juicy, vinous; quality good;
stone very large, roundish-oval, partly free; ripens September 20th.

    =Druid Hill.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 474. 1845. =2.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 78. 1862. =3.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:110 fig.
    111. 1879. =4.= Fulton _Peach Cult._ 191. 1908.

Druid Hill originated about 1840 with Lloyd N. Rogers, Druid Hill,
Baltimore, Maryland. From 1862 until 1899 it was listed in the catalog
of the American Pomological Society. Tree vigorous, productive;
glands reniform; fruit large, round, with a slight suture; skin pale
greenish-white, clouded with a red blush; flesh greenish-white, almost
purple at the pit, very juicy, melting, with a rich, vinous flavor;
stone free; season the last of September.

    =Duboisviolette.= =1.= Noisette _Man. Comp. Jard._ =2=:476.
    1860.

This variety was brought to France from China by a M. Duboisviolette.
The flowers are very large, semi-double, reddish-purple; glands
reniform; fruit large, roundish, terminating in a mamelon tip; skin
white except where exposed; flesh white, vinous.

    =Duboscq.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 122. 1860.

Similar to Oldmixon Free; a very large, good, greenish-white peach.

    =Duchess of Cornwall.= =1.= _Gard. Chron._ =59=:446. 1901.

    _Duchess of York._ =2.= _Ibid._ =58=:59. 1900. =3.= _Ibid._
    =59=:427. 1901.

Originated and introduced by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England.
Fruit of medium size; skin creamy-yellow, with a striped red blush;
flesh melting, with a distinct nectarine flavor; freestone; ripens with
Alexander.

    =Duchesse de Galliera.= =1.= _Guide Prat._ 40. 1895.

Vigorous, productive; glands globose; fruit very large, compressed;
apex mucronate; skin thin, reddish-purple in the sun; flesh white,
violet at the pit, melting, very juicy; freestone; ripens the second
half of September.

    =Duff.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 44. 1891.

    _Duveteuse Jaune._ =2.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:237, 238, fig. 117.
    1866-73.

    _Duff Yellow._ =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 608. 1869. =4.=
    _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 24. 1876. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 28.
    1877.

Duff is an early, market peach which appeared on the fruit-list of the
American Pomological Society from 1877 until 1897. Glands globose;
flowers small; fruit very large, round, with a sharp point; skin
yellow, with a red cheek; flesh yellow, red about the stone, juicy,
slightly acid; clingstone; ripens the middle of July in the South.

    =Duggar.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:811. 1896.

    _Duggar Golden._ =2.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._ =11=:8, 11. 1890.

Glands globose; flowers small; fruit large, roundish; color yellow,
with a blush; flesh yellow, subacid, firm; clingstone; ripens the last
of July.

    =Duggar White.= =1.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._ =11=:8. 1890.

Flowers large, white; fruit medium in size; flesh white, very firm;
quality good; ripens the middle of July; not very prolific.

    =Duke of Marlborough.= =1.= Brookshaw _Pom. Brit._ =1=:Pl. 27
    fig. 1. 1817.

A variety resistant to mildew, found in the garden of the Duke of
Marlborough, near Brentford, Middlesex, England. Flowers large; fruit
large, slightly flattened about the base, heavily pubescent; ripens
August 10th.

    =Duke of York.= =1.= _Can. Hort._ =25=:326. 1902. =2.= Bunyard
    _Cat. Fr. Trees_ 35. 1913-14.

This variety is a cross between Early Rivers nectarine and Alexander
peach, made by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England. Fruit large;
skin brilliant crimson; flesh tender, melting, refreshing; ripens with
Alexander.

    =Du Lin.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 48. 1876.

A variety from Aire, France, with reniform glands.

    =Du Moulin.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 48. 1876.

A variety with reniform glands; recommended for central France.

    =Du Quesnoy.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:155, 156, fig. 14. 1883.

A variety of Belgian origin. Leaves with small, globose glands; flowers
large; fruit large, roundish, depressed at the ends, faintly sutured;
skin heavily pubescent, greenish, covered more or less with an intense
purplish-brown; flesh white, purplish about the pit, melting, sweet;
stone small for the size of fruit, nearly free; ripens the middle of
August.

    =Du Thiers.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 52. 1876.

Glands reniform; flowers of medium size, pale rose-colored.

    =Dulany.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 95. 1854.

A seedling of Heath Cling; superior to its parent in Maryland.

    =Dulce.= =1.= Munson _Cat._ 7. 1904-05.

On the Station grounds the trees of Dulce are weak and unproductive.
The variety, according to T. V. Munson, Denison, Texas, originated
with B. C. Murray, Denison, Texas. Leaves with large, reniform glands;
flowers appear late; fruit small, roundish-cordate, angular, halves
unequal; cavity narrow, flaring; suture shallow; apex roundish, usually
with a small, mamelon tip; skin covered with heavy, coarse pubescence,
tough, greenish-yellow, faintly blushed, with a bronze appearance;
flesh yellow, stained at the pit, moderately juicy, fine-grained,
mild, often astringent; stone below medium in size, ovate, plump,
decidedly bulged, semi-clinging to free; ripens early in October.

    =Dumont.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 267. 1885. =2.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:212. 1899.

Raised by Peter Dumont, Allegan, Michigan, from seed planted about
1835. Tree strong, very hardy, susceptible to leaf-curl; glands
reniform; flowers small; fruit medium to large, roundish-oval, much
compressed; cavity narrow; suture distinct, extending beyond the apex
which terminates in a short, projecting tip; skin covered with dense
pubescence, dark golden, usually blushed, thick, tough; flesh deep
yellow, tinged at the pit, melting, moderately juicy, brisk subacid;
stone oval, free; ripens the middle of September.

    =Dun.= =1.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 97 fig. 1906.

Dun originated in Austria. Leaves with small, globose glands; flowers
large; fruit very large, roundish, with a mamelon tip at the apex; skin
yellowish-white, marbled with dull red; flesh white, stained at the
stone, melting, very juicy, aromatic; very good; stone ending in a long
point, free; ripens the middle of August.

    =Dunlap.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:29. 1895. =2.= _Ibid._
    =169=:212. 1899.

Tree a strong grower, spreading; glands globose; flowers small; fruit
large, roundish to occasionally ovate; cavity wide; suture distinct;
color yellow, nearly covered with dark red; flesh yellow, stained at
the pit, quite juicy, rich, vinous; pit large, plump, free; ripens the
last of August.

    =Dunnington Beauty.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 96. 1831.

Very much like Noblesse. Leaves serrate, glandless; flowers large;
fruit large; skin pale greenish-red; flesh melting; quality good;
ripens at the end of August.

    =Duperron.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 608. 1869.

A seedling raised by a M. Duperron. Glands globose; flowers small;
fruit large to very large, roundish, depressed at the end; suture
shallow; skin downy, golden yellow, more or less washed with pale red;
flesh yellow; clingstone; ripens in October.

    =Durasme.= =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 582. 1629.

"The Durasme or Spanish Peach is of a darke yellowish-red colour on the
outside and white within."

    =Durchsichtiger Lieblingspfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ.
    Obstkunde_ =3=:202. 1858.

Tree of medium size, productive; fruit large, roundish-oblate,
yellowish-white, with a bright red blush; flesh firm yet melting, with
a sweet, vinous flavor; quality good; season early in September.

    =Durham Favorite.= =1.= _Ind. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 52. 1867.

Listed in this reference.

    =Dutchess.= =1.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 223. 1817.

A very large peach, with white skin, a red cheek and a clear stone;
ripens in August and September.

    =Dwarf Aubinel.= =1.= _Flor. & Pom._ 144. 1876.

This variety is remarkable for the constancy with which it is
reproduced from seed and for its dwarf, bushy habit of growth. Flowers
large; fruit large, globular; skin pale orange, marbled with red near
the apex; flesh yellow, red near the stone; quality good; freestone;
ripens at the end of September.

    =Dwarf Champion.= =1.= _N. Mex. Sta. Bul._ =30=:224, 225. 1899.

Listed as growing in New Mexico.

    =Dwarf Cuba.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:29. 1895. =2.=
    _Ibid._ =129=:23. 1896.

A variety with small flowers and reniform glands.

    =Dwarf Orleans.= =1.= Prince _Treat. Hort._ 17. 1828.

    _Nain._ =2.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:44, 45, Pl. 32.
    1768. =3.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:175 fig., 176. 1879.

    _Zwergpfirsich._ =4.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:199. 1858.

    _Italian Dwarf._ =5.= _Am. Jour. Hort._ =1=:287, 288. 1867.

Dwarf Orleans originated in Orleans, Loiret, France, early in the
Eighteenth Century. The tree attains a height of two or three feet
and is used mostly as an ornamental; leaves long, pendent, glandless
and much indented; flowers large, showy; fruit about two inches long,
roundish, deeply sutured; skin white; flesh white, melting, with bitter
juice; freestone; ripens early in October.

    =Dyer June.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =24=:18. 1882.

A chance seedling found near Ava, Missouri. Fruit large; early;
clingstone.

    =Dymond.= =1.= _Jour. Hort._ 3rd Ser. =3=:331. 1881. =2.= Hogg
    _Fruit Man._ 442. 1884.

Said to have been introduced by a Mr. Veitch, Exeter, England.
Leaves glandless; fruit large, roundish, with a deep suture; skin
greenish-yellow, with a dull red cheek, mottled with brighter red;
flesh white, slightly red at the pit, juicy, melting, with a high
flavor; stone free; season the middle of September.

    =Eagle Red.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 199. 1841.

Listed as a large, beautiful fruit, with a red blush, ripening in
September.

    =Earliest Mignonne.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 99. 1831.

A variety with globose glands and small flowers.

    =Early.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 96. 1831.

A variety with globose glands and large flowers.

    =Early Alfred.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =7=:372. 1865. =2.= Hogg
    _Fruit Man._ 219. 1866.

Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, grew Early Alfred from a seed
of Hunt Tawny nectarine. Glands round; flowers large; fruit large;
suture deeply marked, higher on one side than the other; skin tender,
pale straw-colored, somewhat mottled with bright crimson; flesh white,
melting, brisk, vinous; ripens early in August.

    =Early Ascot.= =1.= _Gard. Chron._ 1474, 1506. 1870. =2.=
    _Flor. & Pom._ 1, Pl. 1873.

Early Ascot was raised from a seed of Elruge nectarine by a Mr.
Standish of Ascot, England. Tree hardy, productive; glands small,
roundish; flowers small; fruit medium in size, roundish, somewhat
depressed, with a distinct suture; skin nearly smooth, almost entirely
covered with red, becoming nearly black where exposed; flesh yellow,
tinged at the stone, very juicy; partially freestone; ripens the second
week in August.

    =Early Avant.= =1.= Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 27. 1803.

An agreeable-flavored peach ripening in August.

    =Early Beauty.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 314. 1889.

This is a Texas variety. Fruit large, yellow; freestone; ripens very
early.

    Early Bourdine.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 94. 1831.

Listed as having serrate, glandless leaves and small flowers.

    =Early Charlotte.= =1.= R. G. Chase _Cat._ 20. 1896. =2.=
    _Chico Nur. Cat._ 25. 1904.

A seedling of Early Crawford which originated about 1878 with O.
Dickenson, Salem, Oregon. The variety has considerable merit as
it grows on the Station grounds. Leaves with reniform glands;
flowers appear in mid-season, small, faded, pale pink; fruit large,
roundish-oval, often cordate, halves unequal; cavity deep; apex with a
recurved, mamelon tip; skin covered with long, thick pubescence, thin
but tough, pale yellow, splashed with lively red on a slight blush;
flesh yellow, deeply stained at the pit, slightly stringy, tender,
sprightly, rich, pleasing; quality good to above; pit broadly oval,
plump, bulged, free; matures early in September.

    =Early Chelmsford.= =1.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 190. 1849. =2.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 614. 1857.

Tree vigorous, productive, hardy; leaves glandless; fruit large,
roundish; suture encircling the fruit; skin white, with a bright red
cheek; flesh white, melting, juicy, vinous; freestone; ripens the third
week in August.

    =Early Chevalier.= =1.= _Gard. Chron._ N. S. =20=:47. 1883.

A French peach in which early and late fruits are produced on different
branches of the same tree.

    =Early China.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:804, 805. 1896. =2.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 21. 1897.

Early China is a Honey-flavored peach which originated in southern
Texas where it has proved vigorous and productive, gaining a place in
1897 on the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society. The glands
are round, often lacking; fruit of medium size, oval; apex with a
sharply recurved point; color creamy, with a bright red cheek; flesh
white, pinkish at the pit, very sweet; quality fair; freestone; ripens
the middle of June in Texas.

    =Early Crawford Seedlings Nos. 1 and 3.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._
    =118=:29. 1895. =2.= _Ibid._ =169=:212. 1899.

Seedlings obtained by C. C. Engle, Paw Paw, Michigan.

    =Early Cream.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 44. 1891. =2.= _Tex.
    Sta. Bul._ =39=:818. 1896. =3.= _Fla. Sta. Bul._ =73=:144. 1904.

    _Kite._ =4.= _Ibid._ =73=:148. 1904.

    _Kite Honey._ =5.= _Ibid._ =73=:149. 1904.

Early Cream is a seedling of Honey. It appeared on the American
Pomological Society's fruit-list from 1891 until 1897. Tree strong,
productive; fruit larger than Honey and resembles it in shape but is
not as sharply pointed at the apex; skin very smooth, yellow, washed
with red; flesh fine, sweet, juicy; flavor excellent; ripens the middle
of June.

    =Early Cronesteyn.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:64.
    1900.

Listed as a slow grower in Canada.

    =Early Curtis.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 186. 1880.

A seedling with reniform glands; very similar to Alexander but less
inclined to adhere to the pit.

    =Early Downton.= =1.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 247. 1831.

Raised by Thomas Knight, Downton Castle, England, about 1815. Leaves
crenate, with globose glands; flowers large, pale rose-colored; fruit
narrowed at the apex, usually terminating in an acute nipple; skin
pale yellowish-white, bright red in the sun; flesh yellowish-white to
the stone from which it separates, juicy; ripens at the end of August.

    =Early Free.= =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =15=:289. 1897.

Growing on the grounds of this Station in 1896.

    =Early Imperial.= =1.= _Cal. Bd. Hort. Rpt._ 241. 1890.

W. W. Smith, Vacaville, California, grew Early Imperial from a pit
of St. John open to cross-fertilization. It is highly recommended in
California because of extreme earliness and its good drying qualities;
flesh yellow; freestone.

    =Early Leopold.= =1.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =17=:58. 1869. =2.=
    _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 34. 1874. =3.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 53.
    1876.

Raised by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, from a seed of Early
York. Glands reniform; flowers small; fruit of medium size, pale
yellow, rich; succeeds Rivers.

    =Early Louise.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 609. 1869. =2.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 28. 1875. =3.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 444.
    1884. =4.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 526. 1906.

    _Louise._ =5.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:350. 1903.

Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, raised this peach from a seed
of Early Albert and named it in honor of Queen Victoria's daughter,
Princess Louise. From 1875 until 1883 the variety maintained a place
in the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society. Fruit of medium
size, round, marked on one side with a deep suture; skin highly
colored, with a bright red cheek; flesh yellowish-white, tender, richly
flavored, partly adherent to the pit; season early.

    =Early Lydia.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 111. 1880.

Early Lydia is said to be resistant to rot; a rose-colored freestone
ripening with Hale Early.

    =Early Michigan.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:29. 1895. =2.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1909. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._
    =44=:38, 39. 1910.

Confusion has arisen over two seedlings put out by J. D. Husted,
Lowell, Michigan, as Husted No. 15 and 16. Eventually, No. 15 was
introduced as Early Michigan but because of its similarity to No. 16,
the latter is often substituted for it. The true Early Michigan is
a cross between Hale Early and Chili. As it fruits at this Station,
the peaches lack size and quality. In 1909 the American Pomological
Society added it to its fruit-list. Tree vigorous, spreading; glands
reniform; flowers appear early, large, showy; fruit of medium size,
roundish-oval; cavity deep, narrow; apex with a large, mucronate tip;
skin thin, tender, with long, thick pubescence, creamy, blushed with
dull red, with a few deep red splashes; flesh greenish-white, tinged
at the pit, juicy, stringy, melting, sweet, mild; stone free, broadly
oval, plump; ripens the last of August.

    =Early Miners.= =1.= _N. J. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 40. 1878.

Not spoken of favorably in New Jersey.

    =Early Newington Free.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 476. 1845.
    =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 78. 1862.

This freestone should not be confused with the other Newingtons which
are all clings and usually later in season. One characteristic of this
variety is that fruits on the same tree are free or adhere partially
or wholly to the stone. Tree a moderate bearer; glands reniform;
flowers small; fruit large, round, distinctly sutured; skin pale
yellowish-white, with a rich red cheek; flesh white, tinged at the
stone, juicy, melting, vinous; ripens late in August.

    =Early Purple.= =1.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ 1752. =2.= Prince
    _Pom. Man._ =1=:189, 190. 1831. =3.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 211.
    1832.

    _Véritable Pourprée hâtive à grande fleur._ =4.= Duhamel
    _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:16, 17, Pl. VIII. 1768.

    _Frühe Purpurfirsche._ =5.= Christ Handb. 593, 594. 1817.

    _Pourprée Hâtive._ =6.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=:No. 16, Pl.
    1846. =7.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:241 fig., 242, 243. 1879.

    _Weiniger Lieblingspfirsich._ =8.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:203. 1858.

    _Desse Hâtive._ =9.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:201, 202, fig. 99.
    1866-73.

This variety originated far back in the Eighteenth Century. According
to Mas, it was raised by a M. Desse, Chantecoq, Seine, France, and
passed for a long time under the name Desse Hâtive. Early Purple long
found favor in European orchards but is not much grown now, being
surpassed by better sorts. It was brought to America by William Prince,
Flushing, New York, early in the Nineteenth Century and soon became
confused with Early York. The true variety, however, quickly passed
from cultivation and the name has ever since been confused with that
of Early York. Fruit medium to large, roundish, flattened at the base;
suture deep; color yellowish, blushed with dark red and dotted with red
on the shaded side; pubescence thick, fine; flesh white, stained red
under the skin on the side exposed to the sun, tinged with red next the
pit, juicy, vinous, highly flavored, melting; very good in quality;
stone semi-free to free, brownish-red; ripens early.

    =Early Rareripe I.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 85. 1854.

Dr. H. A. Muhlenberg, Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, originated this
freestone.

    =Early Rareripe II.= =1.= _Kan. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 50. 1901.

Early Rareripe is an improvement on a seedling erroneously called Felt
Rareripe, which was brought to Kansas from Illinois by F. G. Barker of
Salina. Fruit large, deep yellow.

    =Early Red I.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 96. 1831.

Leaves with globose glands; flowers large; fruit of medium size; skin
pale yellow, with a red blush; flesh melting; fair in quality; ripens
at the end of August.

    =Early Red II.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =152=:199. 1898.

This Early Red originated with C. C. Engle of Paw Paw, Michigan.

    =Early Red Cling.= =1.= Prince _Cat. Fr. Trees_ 24. 1823. =2.=
    Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:27. 1832.

    _Earliest Red Cling._ =3.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 16. 1820.

This variety is thought to have been brought to Flushing, New York, by
the French. The shoots are subject to mildew; flowers small.

    =Early Rose I.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 183. 1841.

Of foreign origin. Fruit of medium size; red where exposed; ripens in
August.

    =Early Rose II.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =22=:338. 1880.

This Early Rose is one of the so-called Spanish peaches and was found
on the farm of Preston Rose, Mission Valley, Texas. It is described as
a medium-sized, round, rosy-red fruit, with firm flesh, ripening June
25th; freestone.

    =Early Rose III.= =1.= W. P. Stark _Cat._ 49, 50 fig. 1915.

Early Rose III, according to W. P. Stark, Stark City, Missouri,
was grown by John Keller, Fort Valley, Georgia, from the pit of a
Honey-flavored peach crossed with one of the Indian peaches. Tree a
moderate grower, rather small; flowers large; fruit of medium size,
a rich, deep red; flesh white, rich, sweet; clingstone; ripens with
Eureka. The fruit is handsomely colored and is said to sell for a fancy
price wherever known. Unfortunately, it seems not yet to have been
tried in the North.

    =Early Royal George.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 220. 1832. =2.=
    _Mag. Hort._ =14=:538. 1848.

    _Early George._ =3.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:811. 1896.

This variety may be an American seedling of Royal George. Fruit large,
roundish; skin yellowish-white, splashed with red in the sun; flesh
juicy, tender, vinous, free; fair to good in quality; ripens in August.

    =Early Sam.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Early Silver.= =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 220. 1866. =2.=
    Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:343. 1903.

    _Argentée Précoce._ =3.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 43, 215. 1876.

    _Silver._ =4.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:107. 1901.

This variety was grown by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, in
1857, from a seed of White Nectarine. Fruit large, roundish-ovate, with
a shallow suture; color creamy-white, slightly sprinkled with red;
flesh entirely white, melting, juicy, with a vinous, pleasant, subacid
flavor; stone free; quality good to very good; ripens from the middle
to the last of August.

    =Early Strawberry.= =1.= _Ariz. Sta. Bul._ =15=:62, 67. 1895.

Grown at one time in Arizona.

    =Early Tallman.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =40=:19. 1907.

This is a small, white-fleshed peach of fair quality, ripening with
Triumph. It is a semi-clingstone and of no value.

    =Early de Tours.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 96. 1831.

Listed but not described.

    =Early Victoria.= =1.= _Gard. Chron._ 946. 1861. =2.= Mas _Pom.
    Gen._ =12=:143, 144, fig. 8. 1883.

    _Victoria._ =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 39. 1909.

Early Victoria should not be confused with the Victoria of the South.
This variety first fruited in 1854 with Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth,
England, from a stone of Early York. In 1909 the American Pomological
Society added it to its fruit-list as Victoria. Leaves glandless;
flowers large; fruit of medium size, roundish; skin pale yellow, with
a maroon blush; flesh white, melting, juicy, sweet; stone free, small;
season very early, a week before its parent.

    =Early Wheeler.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Yearbook_ 360, 361, Pl. 28.
    1906.

This is one of a large number of Heath Cling seedlings grown by
E. W. Kirkpatrick, McKinney, Texas, about 1900. Tree moderately
productive; glands reniform; blossoms very large; fruit medium to
large, roundish-oblong; cavity large, broad; apex protruding; skin
thick, tough, heavily pubescent, creamy-white, marbled and splashed
with crimson; flesh white, stained with red near the skin, firm, meaty,
juicy, subacid; quality good to very good; stone adherent, oval; ripens
with Alexander.

    =Early White.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 85. 1854.

A large, fine-flavored freestone originating with Dr. H. A. Muhlenberg,
Lancaster County, Pennsylvania.

    =Early White Cling.= =1.= Prince _Cat. Fr. Trees_ 24. 1823.
    =2.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:35. 1832.

Fruit medium to small; skin pale yellow, marbled with red; flesh
yellowish-green, juicy, pleasant; ripens early in September.

    =Eastburn Choice.= =1.= Hoffy _Orch. Comp._ =1=:Pl. 1841.

The name is in honor of the originator, Rev. Joseph Eastburn,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, who planted a pit about 1825. The variety
comes true from seed. Tree hardy, vigorous, productive; fruit large,
nearly round; skin pale yellow, blushed on the sunny side; flesh
yellowish-white, tinged about the pit, sprightly, slightly acid, juicy;
pit small; ripens late in September.

    =Eaton.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 44. 1891.

    _Eaton Golden._ =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 205. 1858. =3.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 611. 1869. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._
    18. 1871.

Eaton originated in North Carolina and its planting is confined chiefly
to the South. In 1871 it was placed on the fruit-list of the American
Pomological Society as Eaton Golden but in 1891 was changed to Eaton.
Glands reniform; flowers large; fruit above medium in size, round;
suture shallow; skin golden-yellow, with occasional pink spots near
the base; flesh golden, sweet, juicy, with a marked apricot flavor;
clingstone; ripens the middle of September.

    =Edgar Late Melting.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 96. 1831.

Listed in this reference.

    =Edith.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:89. 1896. =2.= Griffing
    Bros. _Cat._ 12. 1900.

Edith is a large, round, white-fleshed clingstone; ripens in Florida
July 25th.

    =Edouard Andre.= =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 87, 208, 209, Pl. 1895.

A French variety originating in the Department of Ain, France. Tree
vigorous, productive; fruit roundish, compressed; cavity deep and
narrow; distinctly sutured; skin deep reddish-purple on a yellow
ground; flesh cream-colored, red at the pit, melting, juicy; stone
plump, oval; ripens the middle of August.

    =Eduard Lucas.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 394. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Edward Late White.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 614. 1857.

Raised by a Dr. Baldwin, Montgomery, Alabama. Fruit large, roundish,
depressed at the apex; suture distinct; skin white, blushed with red;
flesh white, stained at the pit, sweet, juicy; stone slightly adherent;
ripens the first of October and continues all the month.

    =Eladie.= =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 21. 1877.

A seedling of Chinese Cling; fruit of large size and excellent quality.

    =Elate.= =1.= _Ont. Sta. Rpt._ =1=:22. 1894

Mentioned but not described.

    =Elberta (Hottes).= =1.= _Winfield Nur. Cat._ 21 fig. 1912.

This is a supposed strain of Elberta found in an orchard of Elbertas
in Grand Valley, Colorado, according to the catalog of the Winfield
Nursery Company, Winfield, Kansas. The fruit is said to be larger and
better in quality than Elberta but its other characters are similar.

    =Elberta Cling.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 223. 1904. =2.=
    Stark Bros. _Cat._ 42. 1914.

This variety was brought to notice in Louisiana, Missouri, Stark
Brothers having selected it from Elberta. Some pomologists rank it
as identical with Elberta in growth and appearance except that it is
a clingstone. As grown at this Station, however, it does not closely
resemble Elberta in shape nor is it equal to that variety in quality.
Tree vigorous, upright; glands usually reniform; fruit above medium in
size, roundish-oblate, halves unequal, bulged near the apex; suture
deepens toward the apex which is roundish; skin rich yellow, with an
attractive blush of deep red; flesh yellow, deep red about the stone,
juicy, meaty, often having a slight sprightliness, clinging; ripens the
second week in September.

    =Eldred.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =18=:15. 1876. =2.= _Mich. Sta.
    Bul._ =169=:212, 213. 1899.

Eldred was named after its originator, a Mr. Eldred of Washington
County, Texas. It is one of the earliest clings to ripen; glands
globose; flowers medium in size; fruit large, roundish-ovate;
skin creamy-white, with a red blush; flesh white, firm, mild; pit
roundish-oval; ripens just before Hale Early.

    =Elisabeth Bonamy.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 49. 1876. =2.=
    Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:176. 1883.

A French variety introduced in 1868 and named after Madame Elisabeth
Bonamy. Glands reniform; flowers small; fruit very large, roundish,
irregular, with a mamelon tip at the apex; pale yellow, with a deep
carmine blush; flesh yellow; matures the middle of September.

    =Eliza I.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 283. 1854. =2.= Hoffy _N.
    Am. Pom._ =1=:Pl. 1860.

Gerard Schmitz, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, exhibited this seedling
in 1849. Leaves large, with reniform glands; fruit large, round; skin
yellow, with a mottled red cheek; flesh yellow except at the stone;
freestone; matures the last of September.

    =Eliza II.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 187. 1880.

This is a seedling of Late Crawford, originating with C. C. Engle, Paw
Paw, Michigan. Foliage rather glaucous; fruit large, roundish, tapering
at the apex; color yellow, blushed with red; flesh bright yellow, red
at the pit, tender, juicy, rich, vinous; ripens after Late Crawford.

    =Ellison.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 314. 1889. =2.= _Ia.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 510. 1900.

Ellison is another variety that reproduces itself from seed. It
originated in Ohio. As it grows at this Station its only value is
for canning. Tree not very productive; glands reniform; flowers
small; fruit above medium in size, resembling Chili in shape; apex
with a recurved, mamelon tip; skin covered with long pubescence,
greenish-yellow, with narrow splashes of dull red; flesh yellow,
faint red at the pit, rather dry, mild to sprightly; quality fair;
stone free, small, oval, shortly pointed, plump; ripens the middle of
October.

    =Elma.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:89. 1896. =2.= Griffing Bros.
    _Cat._ 12. 1900.

A medium-sized clingstone of the Spanish type; ripens the last of July.

    =Elmira.= =1.= _Horticulturist_ =3=:251. 1848-49. =2.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 636. 1857.

Originated with Dr. M. W. Phillips, Edwards, Mississippi. Glands
reniform; flowers small; fruit large, oval, depressed; suture shallow;
skin heavily pubescent, creamy-white; flesh white, tinged with red at
the stone to which it adheres, sweet, good; ripens early in August.

    =Elmo.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:89. 1896.

Listed as growing at the Florida Station.

    =Elodie.= =1.= _Pa. Fr. Gr. Assoc. Rpt._ 586. 1878.

A seedling of Chinese Cling not as susceptible to rot as its parent.

    =Elriv.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 45. 1897. =2.= _Del. Sta.
    Rpt._ =13=:96. 1901.

J. W. Kerr, Denton, Maryland, produced Elriv by crossing Rivers
with Elberta, in 1888. Tree strong and productive; flowers large;
fruit large, roundish to slightly oblong; suture very distinct; skin
thin, tender, nearly entirely overlaid with bright red; flesh white,
red at the pit, juicy, sprightly; quality good; pit large, oval,
semi-clinging; ripens with St. John.

    =Elrose.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:98. 1901.

Elrose is the result of a cross between Elberta and Mountain Rose made
by J. W. Kerr, Denton, Maryland, in 1888. Flowers small; fruit oblong,
irregular, large; suture distinct; skin almost entirely marbled with
pale red; flesh firm, white; quality fine; stone plump, large; ripens
with Mountain Rose.

    =Ely.= =1.= _Village Nur. Cat._ 9. 1914.

Ely is a large, yellow-fleshed peach of good quality, ripening just
before Carman, according to the catalog of the Village Nurseries,
Hightstown, New Jersey.

    =Emil Liebig.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 394. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Emma.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 134. 1897. =2.= _Ga. Sta.
    Bul._ =42=:235. 1898. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 32. 1899.

Emma, on the Station grounds, is unproductive and of poor quality.
It has had a place on the American Pomological Society's fruit-list
since 1899. Tree upright, rather tall; branchlets inclined to
throw out short, spur-like shoots; glands reniform; fruit small,
roundish-cordate; apex usually with a mucronate tip; skin thin, tough,
deep yellow, with a mottled blush of dull carmine; flesh yellow,
stained at the pit, firm, stringy, sprightly; pit small, ovate, plump,
free; ripens at the end of August.

    =Emporia.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 111. 1880.

Emporia is a very early variety originated by Mrs. L. Burns, near
Emporia, Kansas.

    =Endicott.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 159. 1889.

A freestone seedling of Oldmixon Cling which it resembles in shape;
ripens with Hale Early.

    =English.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:816. 1896.

The tree of English is vigorous but not productive. Glands globose;
fruit medium in size, oval, with a pointed apex; flesh white, firm;
quality fair; clingstone; ripens the middle of August.

    =English Swash.= =1.= _Horticulturist_ =2=:401. 1847-48.

Leaves globose; flowers small; ripens the middle of September;
moderately productive.

    =Enon.= =1.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =170=:174. 1906.

Fruit of medium size, globular, often oblate; suture shallow but
distinct; color greenish-white, shaded and splashed with carmine; flesh
white, moderately firm, melting; quality good; pit oval, short, free;
ripens August 10th.

    =Equinox.= =1.= _Austin Nur. Cat._ 9. 1909.

A very large, yellow freestone, ripening about the third week in
September, according to the Austin Nursery Company, Austin, Texas.

    =Ermine.= =1.= _Ont. Fr. Gr. Assoc. Rpt._ =28=:83. 1896.

Fruit of medium size, partially free; pit large; ripens early in August.

    =Ernoult.= =1.= _Ann. Pom. Belge_ =2=:71, Pl. 1854.

Ernoult originated about 1844 near Liege, Belgium. Tree vigorous,
productive; glands globose; fruit large, roundish; apex with a
peculiarly wrinkled depression; skin downy, clear yellow, shaded with
deep reddish-purple in the sun; flesh white, stained at the pit,
melting, juicy, rich; freestone; ripens the middle of September.

    =Ernst.= =1.= Ramsey _Cat._ 1913.

According to F. T. Ramsey and Son, Austin, Texas, Ernst originated with
a Mr. Surties, Bexar County, Texas, about 1905. Fruit of medium size,
white; freestone; ripens the middle of July.

    =Erzherzog Carl.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:205. 1858.

A seedling of Gemeiner Lieblingspfirsich with which it is similar but
larger, more deeply sutured, less pubescent and not as dark red; ripens
early in September.

    =Erzherzog Johann.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:205.
    1858.

    _Archiduc Jean._ =2.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 48, 215. 1876.

A productive seedling of Gemeiner Lieblingspfirsich which it resembles.
It is larger, more pointed, more deeply sutured, less pubescent, and
not as dark a red as its parent; ripens early in September.

    =Espagne Jaune.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:115 fig. 1879.

This variety was found about 1840 in the vicinity of Bayonne,
Basses-Pyrenees, France. Some believe it to be a native of Spain. Tree
vigorous; glands large, reniform; flowers of medium size; fruit medium
in size, ovoid, somewhat cylindrical, halves unequal; suture distinct;
apex with a mamelon tip; skin thick, yellow, spotted and washed with
red; flesh yellow, tinged at the pit, fibrous, melting, very juicy,
acidulated; stone adheres very slightly, small, ovoid, plump; matures
the latter part of October.

    =Essex Mammoth.= =1.= _Ont. Sta. Rpt._ =7=:53. 1900.

Listed as having been grown in Canada.

    =Estella.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:89. 1896. =2.= _Glen St.
    Mary Nur. Cat._ 11. 1900. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 37. 1909.

Estella originated in western Florida. In 1909 it was added to the
fruit-list of the American Pomological Society. Fruit almost round,
very large; skin greenish-yellow, with a full, red cheek; flesh yellow;
ripens in Florida early in September.

    =Esther.= =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 21. 1877.

A Chinese Cling seedling of large size and excellent quality.

    =Esther Doom.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:34. 1889. =2.= _Austin
    Nur. Cat._ 9. 1909.

Esther Doom originated with Judge Doom, Austin, Texas. A fine,
productive, yellow clingstone, ripening July 25th.

    =Evangelist.= =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 306. 1899.

A hardy variety grown in Iowa.

    =Evans.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 91. 1899.

    _Evans No. 3._ =2.= _Mo. State Fr. Sta. Rpt._ 12. 1905-06.

Evans is said to have the good characters of Elberta; ripens just after
that variety is gone.

    =Evans Cling.= =1.= _Kan. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 195. 1902-03.

A hardy clingstone grown in Iowa.

    =Everbearing.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 51. 1897. =2.= _U. S.
    D. A. Yearbook_ 498, 499, 500, Pl. 61. 1905. =3.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 37. 1909.

Everbearing originated in the garden of a Mrs. Page, Cuthbert, Georgia,
in 1885, and was named and disseminated by P. J. Berckmans about 1897.
A marked characteristic of this variety is that some trees have a
long blossoming and fruiting period. It is too tender for the North
but is recommended for southern peach-districts, having been placed
on the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society in 1909. Tree
vigorous, compact, productive; glands reniform; flowers large; fruit
roundish-conical, large, the later-ripening fruits being smaller;
cavity large, deep and abrupt; suture shallow, with a prominent
apex; skin thick, tough, thickly covered with long pubescence,
greenish-white, striped and mottled with purplish-red; flesh white,
considerably stained and veined with red, meaty, juicy, subacid; stone
oval, free; season July 1st to September or later in southern Georgia.

    =Excellente.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185. 1883.

Listed but not described.

    =Excelsior.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 185. 1856. =2.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 37. 1909. =3.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 201.
    1913.

    _Prince's Excelsior._ =4.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 632. 1857.

Excelsior was grown more than half a century ago by William R. Prince,
Flushing, New York. It has been confused with Crosby, this sort having
been once known as Excelsior. Fruit large, roundish to roundish-oblate;
suture a line, ending in a flattened depression at the base; color
attractive, bright orange-yellow; flesh golden-yellow, very rich,
juicy, aromatic, sweet, separating freely from the stone; quality very
good; season the middle of October.

    =Exquisite.= =1.= _U. S. Pat. Off. Rpt._ 380. 1858. =2.= _Jour.
    Hort._ N. S. =7=:152. 1864. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 612.
    1869. =4.= _Gard. Mon._ =19=:114. 1877.

    _Pavie Georgia._ =5.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:218, 219 fig. 1879.

Exquisite originated in Georgia many years ago. It seems to have been
sent to England and France by P. J. Berckmans, Augusta, Georgia. Leaves
with globose glands; fruit large, roundish-oval, with a distinct
suture; skin yellow, mottled with crimson in the sun; flesh yellow,
red at the stone, free, tender, melting, juicy, vinous; ripens in
September.

    =Extra Early.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =2=:337. 1860.

A seedling of Fay Early Anne which precedes its parent by three weeks;
the fruit is small and fleshy, with a small pit.

    =Fabre.= =1.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 54. 1867.

Tree moderately vigorous, very productive; glands reniform; flowers
very small; fruit large, roundish at the base; apex with a small,
mamelon tip; skin blushed with deep red on a yellowish-white ground;
flesh yellowish-white, coarse, melting, very juicy; pit large, oval,
free; ripens early in September.

    =Fahnestock.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =13=:111. 1847.

A large-fruited seedling from A. Fahnestock, Lancaster, Ohio.

    =Fahnestock Mammoth.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =13=:111. 1847.

A large, yellow clingstone which originated with A. Fahnestock,
Lancaster, Ohio.

    =Falcon.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:816. 1896. =2.= Rivers
    _Cat._ 28. 1909-10.

    _Faucon._ =3.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 55, 218. 1876.

Falcon originated with Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, from a
pit of White Nectarine. Fruit medium in size, roundish; cavity deep,
wide; suture shallow; apex with a small, erect, mamelon tip; skin thin,
creamy-white, blushed with dull red, with a few stripes, not very
attractive; flesh white, tinged at the pit, meaty, sprightly; stone
oval, moderately plump; ripens at this Station the middle of September.

    =Fame.= =1.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._ =156=:133. 1911.

Fame is an upright-growing tree, bearing yellow, freestone fruits of
medium size; ripens July 18th; very susceptible to rot.

    =Fanning.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 92. 1883.

Fanning was exhibited in Philadelphia in 1883 by J. H. Ricketts of
Newburgh, New York. Fruit medium in size, globular; skin striped
and splashed with brownish-red on a yellowish-white ground; flesh
greenish-white, melting, juicy, vinous, sprightly; very good; stone
moderately plump, free.

    =Farrnbacher Lackpfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:215. 1858.

Tree very productive; branches long and slender; glands reniform;
flowers of medium size; fruit large, long, halves unequal; deeply
sutured; skin whitish-yellow, washed and striped with red; flesh
whitish-yellow, red near the stone, very tender, fibrous, vinous;
freestone; ripens the middle of September.

    =Faut.= =1.= _Am. Gard._ =12=:565. 1891.

A Southern seedling. Tree strong, vigorous; fruit large; clingstone.

    =Favier.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:34. 1832.

Favier was introduced by William Robert Prince from the region of the
Mediterranean. Blossoms small; fruit of medium size, roundish; suture
usually but a line; skin overlaid with red, with a deeper hue in the
sun; flesh pale yellowish-white, strongly colored at the pit, melting,
juicy; freestone; ripens September 10th.

    =Favourite.= =1.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 219. 1817. =2.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 477. 1845.

    _Favourite Large Red Clingstone?_ =3.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._
    96. 1831.

    _Favourite Red._ =4.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:23. 1832.

    _Early Favourite?_ =5.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185. 1883.

Glands small, globose, often lacking; flowers small; fruit large,
oblong; skin white, rather downy, covered with dark red where exposed;
flesh red at the stone, somewhat firm, juicy, vinous but not rich;
ripens early in August.

    =Fay Early Anne.= =1.= _Cultivator_ 3rd Ser. =1=:91. 1853. =2.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 41. 1856. =3.= _Ibid._ 78. 1862.

    _Anne Précoce de Fay._ =4.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:101, 102, fig.
    49. 1866-73.

A seedling of Anne, grown by Lincoln Fay, Chautauqua County, New York.
It held a place in the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society
from 1862 until 1869. Tree hardy and productive; glands reniform;
flowers small; fruit of medium size, roundish; skin creamy-white,
sometimes faintly tinged with red where exposed; flesh white, juicy,
rich; ripens two weeks before Early Crawford.

    Fei Tau.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 21. 1909.

Cions of the Fei Tau peach were brought to America by Frank N. Meyer,
United States Department of Agriculture, from the province of Fei
Tcheng, China.

    =Felicie.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:117, 118 fig. 1879.

Charles Buisson, Tronche, Isère, France, grew this variety in
1863. Glands usually lacking; flowers small; fruit of medium size,
roundish-oval, halves unequal, with a mamelon tip at the apex; faintly
sutured; skin thick, heavily pubescent, whitish-yellow, washed and
striped with carmine; flesh yellowish-white to the stone, firm,
fibrous, juicy, vinous, with an after taste; stone small, ovoid, free;
ripens the last of September.

    =Felt Rareripe.= =1.= Gregg _Fruit Cult._ 100. 1877.

The chief characteristic of this variety is that it reproduces itself
from seed. It originated with Cyrus Felt, Monte Bello, Illinois; fruit
large, yellow-fleshed, freestone; ripens the last of August.

    =Ferdinand.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:89. 1896. =2.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 22. 1897. =3.= _Fla. Sta. Bul._ =73=:144. 1904.

Ferdinand is a seedling of Honey raised by G. L. Taber, Glen Saint
Mary, Florida, in 1892. It was entered on the fruit-list of the
American Pomological Society in 1897 but was dropped in 1899. Fruit
roundish, slightly flattened, bulged on one side, large; apex short,
blunt, recurved; suture but a line; skin velvety, thick, tough, dull
yellow, well covered with dull red; flesh firm, meaty, white, streaked
with red; flavor insipid, poor; stone clinging, oval, plump, short;
season early in July.

    =Fetters.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =16=:315. 1874.

John Fetters, Lancaster, Ohio, raised this white-fleshed freestone from
a pit of Lemon Cling.

    =Fine Jaboulay.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 395. 1889. =2.= _Cat.
    Cong. Pom. France_ 99 fig. 1906.

Thought to have originated with Armand Jaboulay, Oullins, Rhône,
France. Leaves with reniform glands; flowers of medium size; fruit
large, roundish, with a very small, mamelon tip at the apex; skin
marbled and washed with red on a yellow ground; flesh white, melting,
vinous, aromatic; quality very good; ripens the middle of September.

    =Finley October.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:98. 1892.

Grown near Seaford, Delaware.

    =Finley Superb.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 186. 1860.

Recommended for planting in Georgia.

    =Fisher.= =1.= _Mo. State Fr. Sta. Bul._ =12=:11. 1904.

A variety grown in Texas and Wright Counties, Missouri. Fruit large,
round, yellow, blushed with red; clingstone; ripens in Missouri about
the middle of September.

    =Fleenor.= =1.= _Ind. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 25. 1864. =2.= _Ibid._
    60. 1870.

Fleenor originated in Indiana. Tree hardy, productive, slender; fruit
large, oblong, white; quality good; clingstone; used for market and
canning; ripens in October.

    =Flewellen.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 636. 1857. =2.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 30. 1875.

Flewellen is of American origin and held a place in the American
Pomological Society's fruit-list from 1875 until 1897. Fruit large,
globular, depressed at the apex; skin downy, yellowish-white, dark,
dull purplish-red where exposed; flesh red at the pit, very juicy,
sweet; desirable for an early cling; ripens early in August.

    =Florence.= =1.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:235. 1898.

This variety is a moderate bearer but rots badly. Tree tall, with dense
foliage, vigorous; fruit of medium size, globular, greenish-white;
flesh white, adherent; quality fair to good; ripens the middle of
August.

    =Florida.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1909.

    _Florida Crawford._ =2.= _Ibid._ 44. 1891. =3.= _Tex. Sta.
    Bul._ =39=:818. 1896.

Introduced by G. L. Taber, Glen Saint Mary, Florida, in 1891. The
variety appeared on the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society
in 1891 as Florida Crawford where it remained until 1899. In 1909 it
reappeared as Florida. Fruit belongs to the Spanish type, very large,
roundish-oblong, somewhat bellied, with a shallow suture; skin pale to
deeper yellow, frequently blushed at the base; flesh stained at the
pit, firm, juicy, vinous; freestone; ripens the last of July.

    =Florida Gem.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:86. 1896. =2.= _Fla.
    Sta. Bul._ =73=:145. 1904. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1909.

One of the best seedlings of Honey both for home and commercial
purposes. Listed by the American Pomological Society in its
fruit-catalog of 1909. Fruit medium to large, oval, angular; suture
indistinct, often wanting; apex conical, long, recurved; skin fuzzy,
thin, tough, greenish-yellow, washed with deep red where exposed; flesh
firm, juicy, white, pink at the stone, sweet, agreeable; stone free,
elliptical, reddish; ripens the last of June.

    =Florida Own.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Bul_. =14=:6. 1891. =2.= _Ibid._
    =62=:513. 1902.

Florida Own is a seedling of Peento, now out of cultivation. Fruit
large, nearly round; skin white, overspread with carmine; flesh sweet,
juicy, melting, semi-clinging; quality excellent; ripens with Peento.

    =Florin.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 313. 1889.

Florin is a California variety ripening with Late Crawford but superior
in size and flavor; tree hardy, a rapid grower and free from curl.

    =Floss.= =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =15=:289. 1897.

Received at this Station for testing in 1894, from E. A. Riehl, Alton,
Illinois. Fruit above medium, roundish-oblong; color greenish-white,
with a few red dots; flesh white, moderately juicy, firm, adherent;
quality good; season the middle of October.

    =Floyd.= =1.= _Ortiz Fruit Farm Cat._ 27. 1900.

According to the catalog of the Ortiz Fruit Farm, Mexico, Missouri,
Floyd was found in Mexico, Missouri, by Wallace Bassford of that place.
Tree very hardy; fruit hangs well, large; skin tough, creamy-white,
blushed where exposed; flesh tender, white, juicy; freestone; ripens
September 25th.

    =Flushing Heath.= =1.= Van Lindley _Cat._ 17. 1892.

This is a large, white-fleshed clingstone which ripens the last of
August, according to the Van Lindley Company, Pomona, North Carolina.

    =Ford.= =1.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:345. 1903.

    _New Ford._ =2.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ _118_:30. 1895. =3.= _Ibid._
    =169=:213. 1899.

Probably originated in Delaware. Tree moderately vigorous, upright,
with drooping branches; glands globose; flowers small; fruit large,
roundish, yellow, blushed with red; flesh yellow, tinged at the pit,
moderately juicy, firm, mild, sweet; quality good; pit free, oval,
plump, pointed; ripens early in September.

    =Ford Choice.= =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =15=:289. 1897.

Ford Choice was received at this Station for testing in 1892 from J.
S. Ford, Pittsford, New York. Fruit large, irregularly oval, with a
shallow suture; skin yellow, with markings of dark red; flesh yellow,
slightly stained with red at the pit which is nearly free, juicy,
somewhat stringy, firm; quality good; ripens early in September.

    =Ford Late.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 53. 1896. =2.=
    Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:345. 1903.

Ford Late, as it fruits on the Station grounds, is of doubtful value.
Trees vigorous, productive; leaves with small, globose glands; flowers
appear early, large, pink; fruit large, oval, tapering, halves unequal,
sides drawn in about the cavity; apex with a mucronate tip; skin
covered with long, coarse pubescence, thin, tough, lemon-yellow to
creamy, with a faint blush of pink; flesh white, neither very juicy
nor stringy, sprightly; stone brown, free, large, obovate, with a
wedge-shaped base; ripens early in October.

    =Ford No. 1.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:34. 1889. =2.= _Ibid._
    =39=:807. 1896. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:213. 1899.

Tree strong, spreading, productive if not too far south; glands
few, reniform; fruit medium to large, roundish-elongated, faintly
sutured; skin creamy-white, with a delicate wash of bright red; flesh
creamy-white, tinged with red at the pit, juicy, tender, sprightly,
vinous; quality good; pit plump, semi-clinging; ripens from the middle
to the last of August.

    =Ford No. 2.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:34. 1889. =2.= _Ibid._
    =39=:811. 1896. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:213. 1899.

Trees round-headed, fairly productive; glands globose; flowers small;
fruit of medium size, roundish, slightly ovate; suture indistinctly
marked; cavity broad, deep; color yellow, with a red cheek; flesh red
at the stone, tender, vinous, juicy; stone oval, pointed, plump, free;
quality good; ripens on the Station grounds the last of September.

    =Ford No. 3.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:34. 1889. =2.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:214. 1899.

Described as follows as it grows on the Station grounds: Trees strong;
glands reniform; flowers small; fruit of medium size, roundish; apex
indistinct; skin greenish-yellow, with a thin bloom; flesh white,
tinged with red at the pit, juicy, tender, vinous; stone free, plump,
pointed; quality poor; ripens the last of October.

    =Ford Red.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:30. 1895. =2.= _Ibid._
    =169=:213. 1899.

Ford Red is thought to have originated in Delaware. Trees roundish,
with an upright head, fairly productive; fruit medium-sized, slightly
enlarged at the suture, generally oval; cavity deep, narrow; color
creamy-white, with a slight blush; flesh white, reddish and rather
bitter at the pit, juicy, tender, rich, mild; quality good; pit free,
oval, pointed, quite plump; season early in September.

    =Ford Seedling.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =5=:539. 1824.
    =2.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 248. 1831.

Leaves doubly serrate, glandless; flowers large; fruit of medium size,
slightly narrowed at the apex; skin yellowish-green, marbled with
bright red; flesh yellow to the stone, juicy, with a rich, astringent
flavor; freestone; ripens the middle of September.

    =Fords.= =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 63. 1891.

A large, very early, white-fleshed freestone.

    =Fords Improved.= =1.= _Cal. Sta. Rpt._ 393. 1895-97.

A white-fleshed freestone of the Chinese type. It ripens early but is
soft and is a poor keeper.

    =Forrester.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 33. 1899. =2.= Waugh
    _Am. Peach Orch._ 202. 1913.

A large, round, good peach, from Georgia. Fruit yellowish-red; ripens
in mid-season.

    =Four in One.= =1.= _Continental Pl. Cat._ 13. 1916.

According to the Continental Plant Company, Kittrell, North Carolina,
this variety is the largest peach that grows and the firmest of the
mid-summer varieties. Skin deep creamy and crimson, tough; flesh soft,
juicy, melting.

    =Fourteen Ounce.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:98. 1892. =2.=
    _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:65. 1900.

A clingstone, listed but not described in these references.

    =Fox.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 44. 1891. =2.= _Ibid._ 33.
    1899. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:214. 1899. =4.= Budd-Hansen
    _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:345. 1903.

    _Fox's Seedling._ =5.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 478. 1845.

Fox originated in New Jersey. The American Pomological Society listed
the variety in its fruit-catalog in 1891 but dropped it in 1897,
replacing it in 1899. Tree vigorous; glands globose; fruit medium in
size, roundish, slightly compressed, with a small suture which extends
nearly around the fruit; skin creamy-white, with a red blush; flesh
white, red at the pit, free, melting, juicy, sweet, with a rich, vinous
flavor; season the last of September.

    =Frances.= =1.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:345, 346 fig.
    1903. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 37. 1909. =3.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._
    =156=:133. 1911. =4.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 202. 1913.

    _Francis._ =5.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 42. 1895.

There is doubt as to the place of origin of this peach. Most writers
mention Ohio but a communication from Leon Sanders, Plain Dealing,
Louisiana, states that the variety was found in that State by his
father about 1895 and was introduced to the trade by L. T. Sanders and
Son. Frances was added to the fruit-list of the American Pomological
Society in 1909. Fruit large, roundish-oval, with a pronounced suture;
apex prominent; skin yellow, washed and striped with bright red; flesh
yellow, stained with red at the pit, melting, juicy, with a rich,
vinous flavor; quality good; stone oval, free; season follows Elberta.

    =Frank.= =1.= Munson _Cat._ 14, Pl. 1915-16.

According to the Munson Nurseries, Denison, Texas, Frank was raised
in 1903 by J. W. Stubenrauch, Mexia, Texas, from a pit of Elberta
and named after Frank Holland of the _Farm and Ranch_. Fruit large,
globular; skin yellow, covered with considerable rich red; clingstone;
ripens two weeks after its parent.

    =Frankfort.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:98. 1892.

Listed in this reference.

    =Franklin.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =31=:58. 1887.

Listed as grown in Michigan at one time.

    =Franquières.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 49. 1876. =2.= _Guide
    Prat._ 31. 1895.

Resembles Orchard Queen but is earlier, rounder, and higher in quality.
Trees very vigorous and productive; glands reniform; fruit large,
roundish, nearly covered with reddish-carmine; flesh very red at the
stone, juicy; matures the first of September.

    =Franz Koelitz.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 395. 1889. =2.=
    _Guide Prat._ 40. 1895.

An early, German variety without glands.

    =Fredenburgh.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =23=:303. 1881.

A large, very early sort, like Alexander in appearance and quality,
raised by W. H. Fredenburgh, Kingston, New York.

    =Freehold.= =1.= _N. J. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 47. 1884.

Freehold originated in Freehold, New Jersey; fruit large, with a red
cheek; flesh white; freestone; of good quality; ripens the second week
in November.

    =Free Mason.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =13=:26. 1871. =2.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 1st App. 121. 1872.

A seedling of Early Rareripe, grown by Rev. R. W. Todd, Denton,
Maryland. Tree very vigorous, spreading in its habit; leaves serrate,
glandless; flowers small; fruit of medium size, roundish, inclining
to oblong; skin white, shaded with red; flesh deep red at the stone,
juicy; ripens immediately after Smock.

    =Freeman.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =10=:20, 21. 1868.

    _Freeman Late._ =2.= _Ibid._ =19=:336. 1877.

Named after its originator, H. C. Freeman, Alto Pass, Illinois. The
fruits resemble Smock of which it may be a seedling; however, it is
later and higher in quality.

    =Freeman White.= =1.= _Ohio Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 45. 1867.

A variety of some repute in New Jersey. Resembles Heath Free but is
larger; used for market.

    =French Blood Cling.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 104. 1831.
    =2.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:33. 1832.

    _Wilder Blutpfirsich._ =3.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:194.
    1858.

Leaves with reniform glands; flowers large; fruit of medium size, dark
red; used for preserves; matures at the end of October.

    =French Chancellor.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =1=:189. 1831.

A variety of French origin. Fruit large, with a distinct suture; apex
with a small, mamelon tip; skin fine red next the sun; flesh melting,
sweet, with a pleasant flavor; ripens the first of September.

    =French Mignonne.= =1.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ 1752. =2.=
    Brookshaw _Pom. Brit._ =1=:Pl. 21 fig. 2. 1817.

Although bearing a close resemblance to Grosse Mignonne, this peach
seems to be distinct. The chief points of difference are thicker skin,
more brilliant color and more oblong form in the fruit of this variety.

    =French Willow Leaved.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:12. 1832.

    _A Feuilles de Saule._ =2.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 77, 78.
    1867.

This tree has leaves resembling those of the willow. Leaves devoid of
glands; flowers very small; fruit of medium size or larger, roundish,
halves unequal; flesh white, red at the stone; pit large, free; ripens
in October and only succeeds in a warm exposure.

    =Friers.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 211. 1676.

"Friers peach is an excellent fruit."

    =Fritzes Sämling.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 395. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Frogmore Golden.= =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 221. 1866. =2.=
    _Flor. & Pom._ 89, Pl. 1878.

A Mr. Ingram, Frogmore, England, grew this variety from a pit of the
Bellegarde peach crossed with Pitmaston Orange nectarine. Trees rather
free from mildew; glands globose; fruit of medium size; of a deep
apricot color, both in and out; flesh rich, vinous, tinged at the stone
from which it separates; ripens early.

    =Frühe aus der Ortenau.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 395. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Frühe May von Brigg.= =1.= Lucas _Handb. Obst._ 475. 1893.

Tree strong and very productive; fruit very large, whitish-yellow, with
a red blush; ripens the middle of July.

    =Frühe Mignonne.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 100. 1831. =2.=
    Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 395. 1889.

    _Large Early Mignonne._ =3.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:10. 1832.

    _Early Mignonne._ =4.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 211. 1832.

    _Frühe Lieblingspfirsich._ =5.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:202. 1858.

    _Early Grosse Mignonne._ =6.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 219. 1866. =7.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 30. 1877. =8.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:165
    fig., 166. 1879.

Frühe Mignonne was first mentioned early in the Nineteenth Century as
coming from the vicinity of Paris, France. It is a strain of Grosse
Mignonne, but with smaller and earlier fruit. The American Pomological
Society listed it in its fruit-catalog from 1877 until 1897. Glands
small, globose; flowers large; fruit large, roundish, more or less
ovoid, regular in outline, strongly sutured; usually with a mamelon
tip; skin pale yellow, marbled with carmine; flesh whitish-green, red
at the pit, melting, juicy, sweet, sprightly; stone roundish-oval,
plump, nearly free; ripens early in August.

    =Früher Bergpfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:200,
    201. 1858.

Fruit large, oblate, halves unequal; deeply sutured; skin with a
straw-yellow color, with dark red streaks, heavily pubescent; flesh
white throughout, pleasing; stone small; ripens from the first to the
middle of August.

    =Fruitland.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 613. 1869.

Fruitland originated at Augusta, Georgia. Fruit large, obovate,
tapering to a point; greenish-white, with a pale, mottled red cheek;
flesh greenish-white, faintly red at the stone, very juicy, vinous;
freestone; matures early in September.

    =Fulkerson.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 283. 1854.

Of American origin, having been raised by R. P. Fulkerson, Ashland,
Ohio, about 1851. Leaves without glands; fruit of medium size, obtuse,
sides irregular and unequal; skin white, with a red cheek; flesh
whitish-yellow, tinged at the stone, juicy, rich, high in quality;
stone small, angular, flattened, free; ripens August 20th.

    =Fullers Galande.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 97. 1831.

Listed as having globose glands and small flowers.

    =Furness.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 59. 1869.

Mentioned as a good, late clingstone.

    =G. & A.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:98. 1892.

Fruit irregular in outline; yellow-fleshed; freestone; quality good;
pit small; ripens the first of September.

    =G. Orange Cling.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 206. 1896.

An inferior variety listed by the Illinois Horticultural Society; fruit
of medium size; flesh yellow; quality fair.

    =Gaillard-Girerd I.= =1.= _Rev. Hort._ N. S. =7=:12. 1907.

Soon after the early American varieties of the Amsden and Hale Early
type were introduced into France they were used in breeding new
varieties. This peach is a white-fleshed freestone, resulting from a
seed of Poirieux crossed with Hale Early.

    =Gaillard-Girerd II.= =1.= _Rev. Hort._ N. S. =7=:12. 1907.

Said to resemble closely its parent, Gaillard-Girerd I.

    =Gain de Montreuil.= =1.= _Gard. Chron._ 68. 1848. =2.= Mas _Le
    Verger_ =7=:123, 124, fig. 60. 1866-73.

    _Galande von Montreuil._ =3.= Lauche _Deut. Pom._ =6=:No. 6,
    Pl. 1882.

Alexis Lepère, Montreuil, France, grew this variety about 1846. Tree
strong, unusually productive; leaves with both reniform and globose
glands; flowers very small; fruit of medium size, roundish, depressed
at the ends; suture distinct; apex with a small, mamelon tip; skin
thin, with short pubescence, yellowish-white, with a red blush;
flesh stained at the stone, firm, sweet; very good; stone adherent,
elongated-oval, deeply furrowed; ripens the last of August.

    =Galande.= =1.= _Pom. Mag._ =1=:26, Pl. 1828. =2.= Mas _Le
    Verger_ =7=:189, 190, fig. 93. 1866-73. =3.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._
    =6=:124, 125 fig., 126. 1879. =4.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 396,
    397. 1889.

    _Bellegarde._ =5.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ 1752. =6.= Lindley
    _Guide Orch. Gard._ 254, 255. 1831. =7.= Downing _Fr. Trees
    Am._ 471. 1845.

    _Grosse Noire de Montreuil._ =8.= _Ann. Pom. Belge_ =1=:85, Pl.
    1853.

    _Violette Galande._ =9.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:210,
    211. 1858.

The origin of this old variety is unknown. It apparently was known
in France in the middle of the Seventeenth Century and was long and
widely cultivated in that country under various names. The number of
synonyms shows its popularity in France and England. Leaves crenate,
with globose glands; flowers small; fruit large, round, regular, with
a shallow suture; color pale yellowish-green, with a rich red cheek,
often streaked with darker purple; flesh pale yellow, rayed with red at
the stone, melting, juicy, highly flavored, free; season the last of
August.

    =Galande Pointue.= =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:129, 130, fig. 63.
    1866-73. =2.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:127 fig., 128. 1879.

    _Spitze Galand Pfirsich._ =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 415. 1889.
    =4.= Gaucher _Pom. Prak. Obst._ No. 85, Tab. 77. 1894.

About 1805 a M. Dormeau of Montreuil, Seine, France, seems to have
been growing this variety. Fruit large, roundish-oval, irregular; skin
yellowish-white, partly covered and dotted with carmine; flesh whitish,
somewhat red at the center, firm but tender, juicy, sweet, vinous;
quality good; stone free; season early in August.

    =Galbraith.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 167. 1871. =2.= _Mich.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 498. 1871.

A variety from Illinois, recommended for market. Glands globose;
flowers small; fruit of medium size, roundish; color white, with a red
cheek; very good; ripens at the end of July.

    =Galland May.= =1.= _Greensboro Nur. Cat._ 22. 1898.

A very early variety with good shipping qualities, according to the
Greensboro Nurseries, Greensboro, North Carolina.

    =Galveston.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:805. 1896. =2.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 33. 1899.

Galveston was placed on the fruit-list of the American Pomological
Society in 1899; it comes from southern Texas. Tree very vigorous and
productive, inclined to overbear; glands few, reniform; fruit of medium
size, roundish; skin creamy, with a light red cheek; flavor subacid;
ripens the last of July.

    =Gant Noir.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 397. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Garden Cling.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 289. 1893.

Garden Cling on the Station grounds is not promising in fruit or tree
characters. Fruit of medium size, roundish, compressed; skin thick,
tough, greenish-white, more or less overspread with bright red; flesh
white to the stone, juicy, sweet, rubbery; stone oval, smooth, plump;
ripens early in October.

    =Gates Cling.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 312. 1889.

Originated and named by J. W. Gates, Vacaville, California. Trees
tender; fruit large; skin too tender for shipping, silver-white, with a
red blush; flesh white, firm; pit large, irregular.

    =Gather Late October.= =1.= Van Lindley _Cat._ 19. 1892.

A very late clingstone listed by Van Lindley, Pomona, North Carolina.

    =Gaylord.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 614. 1869. =2.= _Tex.
    Sta. Bul._ =39=:812. 1896.

A peach grown in Mississippi by Dr. M. W. Phillips. Tree fairly
vigorous, but not productive; glands large, round; flowers small;
fruit resembles Crothers, large, round, with a pointed apex; skin
creamy-white, heavily pubescent; flesh white, juicy, rich; freestone;
ripens the middle of August.

    =Geary.= =1.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:346. 1903.

    _Gearys Hold-On._ =2.= _Gard. Mon._ =19=:174. 1877. =3.= Hood
    _Cat._ 31. 1905.

    _Hold-On._ =4.= Fulton _Peach Cult._ 176. 1908.

Geary is said to be a seedling of Smock; on the Station grounds it
ripens with it. Tree large, vigorous but not very productive, slightly
drooping; leaves finely serrate, with large, reniform glands; flowers
small, faded pink, darker at the edges; fruit above medium in size,
oval, halves unequal; cavity deep, sides drawn up forming a prune-like
neck; tip mucronate; skin tough, covered with short pubescence,
golden-yellow, slightly splashed with darker red on a dull blush; flesh
pale yellow, stained at the pit, rather dry, coarse, sweet; fair in
quality; stone large, oval, flattened, more or less pointed, free.

    =Gebhardt.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:41. 1910.

A locally known seedling of Hale Early grown by Benton Gebhardt, Oceana
County, Michigan, about 1878. It is valued for high quality in fruit.
Tree hardy and an early and regular bearer, not very susceptible to
fungus; fruit above medium in size, roundish-oblong, flattened slightly
at the ends; cavity broad; suture continuous, deeper at the ends;
skin velvety, creamy-white, with a solid, dark crimson cheek; flesh
creamy-white, tender, juicy, mild subacid, aromatic; quality very good;
stone free; ripens just before Early Michigan.

    =Gem.= =1.= Munson _Cat._ 6. 1893. =2.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._
    =39=:812. 1896.

Similar to Oldmixon Cling, but with more color in the cheek; glands
reniform; season very late; unproductive.

    =Gemina.= =1.= _Mo. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 181. 1895.

Mentioned as a very late and very hardy variety; recommended for
Missouri.

    =General Bidwell.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 315. 1889.

A seedling named by the California Horticultural Society in 1886 and
recommended for cultivation. Fruit larger than Orange Cling, yellow;
flesh solid, juicy, rich; pit small, free; ripens between Late Crawford
and Salwey.

    =General Custer.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 111. 1880.

A seedling raised by E. F. Hynes, Kansas, about 1878.

    =General Grant.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 317. 1889. =2.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:214. 1899.

Originated with W. W. Smith, Vacaville, California. Trees fairly
strong; glands reniform; flowers small; fruit medium to large,
roundish, tapering towards the apex; cavity narrow, deep; suture
extends two-thirds around the fruit; skin pale creamy-white, with a
mottled cheek; flesh red at the pit, moderately juicy, firm, vinous;
pit roundish-oval, pointed, plump, adherent; ripens late.

    =General Greene.= =1.= _N. C. Sta. Rpt._ =12=:108. 1889. =2.=
    _Greensboro Nur. Cat._ 25. 1898.

A large, white-fleshed freestone, ripening the last of August. The
variety originated in Guilford County, North Carolina.

    =General Harrison.= =1.= _Glen St. Mary Nur. Cat._ 20. 1906.

According to the Glen Saint Mary Nurseries, Glen Saint Mary, Florida,
this variety was originated at Cocoa, Florida, by C. W. Harrison. Fruit
above medium in size, shaped like the Honey seedlings without the long
points; color light yellow, overlaid with red; flesh white; clingstone;
ripens in July.

    =General Laudon. 1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:205. 1858.

General Laudon is a seedling of Karl Schwarzenberg, raised about 1836.
Tree productive; flowers large, pale red; fruit large, oval, deeply
sutured; skin greenish-yellow, blushed; flesh white, vinous; freestone;
ripens at the end of August.

    =General Taylor. 1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 25. 1876. =2.= _Tex.
    Sta. Bul._ =39=:812. 1896.

General Taylor is an early clingstone of fair quality. Tree vigorous,
productive; glands reniform; fruit of medium size, roundish-ovate; skin
creamy-white, with a red cheek; ripens in Texas the last of June.

    =Genesee. 1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 16. 1883.

Fruit medium to large; flesh creamy-white, juicy; freestone; ripens in
October.

    =Genueser. 1.= Christ _Handb._ 591. 1817.

    _Pêche de Genes._ =2.= Christ _Wörterb._ 351. 1802.

    _Genueser Aprikosenpfirsich._ =3.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:218. 1858.

Flowers small; fruit large, round, halves unequal; suture shallow;
skin yellow, more or less mottled with clear red; flesh deep yellow,
pleasing, melting; freestone; ripens early in October.

    =George Late. 1.= _Cal. Bd. Hort. Rpt._ 73. 1891. =2.= _Cal.
    Nur. Cat._ 20. 1898.

George Late originated in Sacramento, California, where the fruit is
much esteemed as a clingstone because of its rich color, large size and
superior shipping qualities. The trees on the Station grounds have not
yet fruited.

    =Georgia Press. 1.= _Greensboro Nur. Cat._ 25. 1898.

Fruit large; flesh nearly white, juicy, acid; ripens in August,
according to the Greensboro Nurseries, Greensboro, North Carolina.

    =Gest Superb. 1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 292. 1854.

An American variety bearing globose glands; fruit large, roundish; skin
yellowish-white; flesh firm, subacid; ripens in September.

    =Gestreifter Blutpfirsich. 1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:194. 1858.

Resembles Sanguinole but longer. Fruit striped; flesh clear red, not
adhering to the pit; ripens early in October.

    =Gettysburg. 1.= _Rural N. Y._ =62=:820, fig. 304. 1903.

Found and named by Earl Peters, Mount Holly Springs, Pennsylvania, who
claims it to be the latest and best yellow-fleshed freestone in that
vicinity.

    =Gibbon. 1.= _Gard. Mon._ =21=:149. 1879.

Fruit large, oval, terminating in an acute, swollen tip; skin clear
yellow, blushed; flesh yellow, melting, juicy; ripens the middle of
August.

    =Gibbon October. 1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 44. 1891. =2.=
    Griffing _Cat._ 10. 1910.

A seedling of the Spanish type from northern Florida. In 1891, it
appeared on the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society but was
soon dropped. It is one of the last white-fleshed, freestone peaches to
mature, ripening at the last of September.

    =Gibson. 1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 242. 1886. =2.= _Mich.
    Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:42. 1910.

A seedling raised by Eugene Gibson, New Richmond, Michigan. The variety
was said to be earlier than either Amsden or Alexander. It was thought
by some to be identical with the Champion of Michigan. Leaves deeply
serrate; susceptible to mildew.

    =Gibson Late.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =21=:362. 1879.

Gibson Late has small value as grown on the Station grounds. Tree
neither vigorous nor productive; fruit medium to above in size,
oblong-oval, sometimes roundish-oval, with a bulge along the suture;
skin with considerable pubescence, greenish-yellow, with a faint blush;
flesh light yellow, stained at the pit, juicy, coarse, stringy; quality
fair; freestone; ripens the latter half of October.

    =Gibson Seedling.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:34. 1889.

Listed as grown in Texas.

    =Gillingham.= =1.= _Oregon Nur. Cat._ 35. 1913.

The Oregon Nursery Company, Orenco, Oregon, states that Gillingham
resembles Early Crawford but ripens a few days later; the tree bears
young and abundantly.

    =Gilman Early.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 199. 1841.

A variety ripening in August; productive.

    =Gilmore.= =1.= _Mo. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 246. 1893.

This variety was found growing in Gilmore, Arkansas, by S. W. Gilbert,
Thayer, Missouri; said to be "very early and good to look at but not
fit to eat."

    =Gladstone.= =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 448. 1884.

This is another variety grown by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth,
England. Leaves glandless; flowers large; fruit very large, round,
often oblate; suture shallow; skin pale yellowish-green, with a faint
red cheek; flesh white, tender, melting, vinous; freestone.

    =Glasgow.= =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =14=:119. 1863.

Glasgow is listed as a freestone grown in Missouri.

    =Glen.= =1.= _Glen St. Mary Nur. Cat._ 19. 1911.

Glen is a cross between Peento and Honey from Glen Saint Mary, Florida.
Fruit two and one-half inches long, ending in a blunt point; deeply
sutured; skin tough, yellow, often entirely covered with red; flesh
light yellow, stained at the pit, firm; freestone; season early in June.

    =Glendale.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:812. 1896.

Glendale, better known as Glendale Beauty, did not prove productive in
Texas. Glands large, globose; fruit large, ovate, with an acute apex;
skin yellow; flesh firm, sweet; freestone; ripens early in July.

    =Globe.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =27=:334. 1885. =2.= _Mich. Hort.
    Soc. Rpt._ 314. 1889. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 30. 1889. =4.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:214. 1899.

Globe is a chance seedling from Berks Center, Pennsylvania. The tree
is a rapid and vigorous grower and usually productive. It was placed
on the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society in 1889 where
it still remains. Glands globose; flowers small; fruit large, round,
slightly ovate; cavity broad; skin yellow, with a red cheek; flesh
yellow, vinous, sprightly; quality good; pit large, oval, plump, free;
ripens at the last of September.

    =Gold Ball.= =1.= Bailey _Ann. Hort._ 184. 1892.

A large, yellow-fleshed clingstone introduced in 1892 by Ramsey & Son,
Mahomet, Texas.

    =Gold Dust.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 107. 1882. =2.=
    _Boonville Nur. Cat._ 18. 1912.

Gold Dust originated with J. C. Evans, Howell County, Missouri. The
peaches on the Station grounds are very attractive. Trees moderately
productive; glands reniform, large; flowers appear in mid-season,
small; fruit large, roundish-cordate, halves unequal; apex ends in a
small, recurved, mamelon tip; skin thin but tough, heavily pubescent,
golden-yellow, overspread with lively red and with few splashes of
darker red; flesh tinged at the pit, juicy, meaty, sprightly; quality
fair; stone adherent, large, oval to ovate, acutely pointed at the
apex; ripens late in September.

    =Gold Mine.= =1.= Greening Bros. _Cat._ 85. 1901. =2.= _Mich.
    Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:45, Pl. 1910.

G. E. Prater, Paw Paw, Michigan, grew and introduced Gold Mine. It
is a cross between Barnard and Late Crawford, resembling the latter
parent. On the Station grounds the variety lacks productiveness; trees
vigorous, hardy; glands small, globose; flowers appear in mid-season,
small; fruit large, oval to cordate, halves decidedly unequal; apex
with a large, mucronate tip; skin thick, tough, coarsely pubescent,
greenish-yellow, blushed with dull red; flesh yellow except at the pit,
juicy, coarse, sprightly, pleasing; quality good; pit free, large,
ovate, plump, tinged with purple; ripens late in September.

    =Golden.= =1.= _Horticulturist N. S._ =7=:178. 1857.

Golden is a mediocre variety from Georgia.

    =Golden Ampère.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Golden Ball.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 292. 1854.

Golden Ball is of American origin. Glands globose; fruit large,
roundish, orange-yellow; flesh stained at the stone, juicy; freestone;
ripens early in September.

    =Golden Belt.= =1.= _Kan. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 195. 1902-03.

Listed as grown at one time in Kansas.

    =Golden Cling.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 147. 1881. =2.=
    Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 314. 1889. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 33.
    1899. =4.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 202. 1913.

Golden Cling is one of the standard peaches of California. It has
held a place on the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society
since 1899. The variety originated with A. T. Hatch, Suisum Valley,
California. Fruit large, oval, compressed, yellow-fleshed; quality
good; season late; good for kitchen or market.

    =Golden Cuba.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =31=:58. 1887.

Listed as growing in Michigan.

    =Golden Eagle.= =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 448. 1884.

    _Aigle doré_. =2.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 54. 1876.

Golden Eagle was raised by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, as
a second generation from Late Crawford. Leaves with reniform glands;
flowers small; fruit very large, round, deeply sutured; skin deep
orange, with a red cheek on the sunny side; flesh stained at the pit,
tender, melting, rich; freestone; ripens at the end of September.

    =Golden Gate.= =1.= _New Haven Nur. Cat._ 7. 1899-1900.

Dr. Smith, Hermann, Missouri, originated Golden Gate. Fruit yellow;
season follows Elberta according to the New Haven Nurseries, New Haven,
Missouri.

    =Golden Purple.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 200. 1841.

    _Gold and Purple._ =2.= Prince _Treat. Hort._ 17, 18. 1828.
    =3.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 43, 44. 1867.

    _Pourpre Dorée._ =4.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:239, 240 fig. 1879.

Golden Purple originated in Georgia and was sent out by P. J.
Berckmans, Augusta, Georgia. Fruit of medium size, round, with a
distinct suture; color golden-yellow, with a deep crimson blush;
flesh greenish-yellow, slightly red at the pit, juicy, sweet, with a
pleasant, aromatic flavor; stone free; season the last of July.

    =Golden Rareripe.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 192. 1841. =2.=
    _Jour. Hort. N. S._ =5=:188. 1863. =3.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 448.
    1884.

An American variety from Monmouth County, New Jersey, little known in
America but listed by several English nurserymen. Glands reniform;
flowers small; fruit resembles the Crawfords.

    =Golden Sweet Cling.= =1.= Stark Bros. _Cat._ 36. 1913.

Originated near Fort Smith, Arkansas. Fruit large, juicy and sweet,
according to the catalog of Stark Brothers, Louisiana, Missouri.

    =Goode.= =1.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:347. 1903.

    _Goode October_. =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 614. 1869.

This variety originated in South Carolina. Fruit large, round or
slightly oblong; skin white, veined with red, heavily pubescent; flesh
white, stained at the stone, juicy, vinous; clingstone; matures early
in October.

    =Gooding.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:100, 101. 1901.

A Mr. Gooding, formerly of Smith County, Texas, originated this
variety. It was introduced in 1892 by John F. Sneed, Tyler, Texas. The
fruit resembles Mamie Ross but is a few days later.

    =Gordon.= =1.= Harrison _Cat._ 13. 1904.

Gordon is a very late variety from J. G. Harrison and Sons, Berlin,
Maryland. The trees are not productive on the Station grounds. Glands
small, globose; flowers appear late; fruit large, oval-cordate, halves
unequal; apex tipped with a recurved, mamelon tip; skin tough, covered
with short pubescence, creamy-white, blushed with lively red, with a
few dull splashes; flesh white, tinged at the stone, juicy, tender,
rich; quality very good; stone large, oval to obovate, flattened,
wedge-shape at the base, free; ripens at the last of September.

    =Gorgas.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =19=:519. 1853. =2.= Downing _Fr.
    Trees Am._ 615, 616. 1857. =3.= Hoffy _N. Am. Pom._ No. 1, Pl.
    1860. =4.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:130, 131 fig. 1879.

Gorgas originated with Benjamin Gullis, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,
from a stone of Morris White planted in the fall of 1846. The variety
first fruited in 1850. Tree vigorous, bearing glandless leaves; fruit
moderately large, roundish, with a swollen point at the apex; suture
indistinct; color yellowish-white, clouded and blotched with red on
the cheek; flesh white, stained at the stone which is free, firm,
juicy, sweet and agreeably flavored; quality very good; ripens late in
September.

    =Goshawk.= =1.= _Jour. Hort._ 3rd Ser. =13=:494. 1886. =2.=
    Bunyard-Thomas _Fr. Gard._ 113. 1904.

    _Autour._ =3.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 55, 215. 1876.

Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, raised Goshawk from a seed of
Coolidge impregnated with pollen from the Stanwick nectarine. On the
Station grounds the trees are not vigorous; leaves devoid of glands;
flowers large; fruit large; skin greenish-white, mottled with spots of
dull red; flesh juicy, melting, brisk; ripens in mid-season.

    =Gough Late Red Clingstone.= =1.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 17.
    1820.

Listed by Prince in 1820.

    =Governor.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 75. 1873.

Governor is a seedling of President which it surpasses in quality of
fruit. It originated with L. E. Berckmans of Rome, Georgia, many years
ago. Fruit very large, roundish, regular; skin white, nearly covered
with red and with a dark red cheek; flesh white, melting, vinous,
aromatic, free; quality good; ripens the middle of August.

    =Governor Briggs.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:812. 1896.

    _Briggs._ =2.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:209. 1899.

The origin of this sort is unknown but it has been propagated in
Michigan for some years under the name Briggs. Tree unproductive;
glands globose, small; fruit medium to large, roundish-ovate, with a
distinct suture; color yellow, with a red cheek; flesh yellow, red at
the pit, juicy, tender, with a rich, vinous, sprightly flavor; quality
good; pit free; season in Michigan the last of August.

    =Governor Campbell.= =1.= Ramsey _Cat._ 9. 1909.

This is an old, white clingstone which ripens in Texas about July 20th,
as described by F. T. Ramsey and Son, Austin, Texas.

    =Governor Garland.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 51. 1879.
    =2.= _Ibid._ 112. 1880.

The original Governor Garland tree grew six miles from Bentonville,
Arkansas. The fruits are described as larger, earlier and inferior in
flavor to Amsden.

    =Governor Hubbard.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:34. 1889.

Listed by the Texas Experiment Station.

    =Governor Lanham.= =1.= Ramsey _Cat._ 9. 1909.

Governor Lanham originated at Austin, Texas, and was introduced by F.
T. Ramsey and Son, of that place. It resembles Elberta in size, shape
and season but is a clingstone.

    =Governor Phelps.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 111. 1880.

E. F. Hynes of Kansas introduced Governor Phelps; fruit large, yellow,
clingstone.

    =Grand Admirable.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =3=:56. 1861. =2.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 78. 1862.

An attractive clingstone from Louisville, Kentucky, first grown about
1840. On the Station grounds the trees are only fairly productive;
glands small, globose; flowers appear early, small; fruit medium in
size, roundish, inclined to oblate, angular, halves unequal; skin
tough, covered with short pubescence, creamy-white, with a carmine
blush and a few lively red mottlings; flesh tinged at the stone, juicy,
moderately coarse, meaty, with a trace of sprightliness; fair in
quality; stone oval, somewhat plump; ripens the last week in September.

    =Grand Carnation.= =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 580. 1629.

"Grand Carnation is like Carnation but greater and later, ripening the
beginning of September."

    =Grand Monarque.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 97. 1831.

This variety bears reniform glands and small flowers.

    =Grand Reporter.= =1.= _Weber Nur. Cat._ 14. 1900.

Grand Reporter was found by a Mr. Pfister, Creve Coeur Lake, Missouri.
Tree hardy and productive, with fruit similar to Late Crawford but a
week later, according to H. J. Weber, Nursery, Missouri.

    =Grandeville.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 97. 1831.

Leaves deeply serrate and glandless; flowers large.

    =Granger.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 189. 1880.

A seedling grown by S. L. Staley about 1850 and later given to F.
Granger, Monterey, Michigan. It is distinguishable from Late Crawford
only by a slight difference in habit of tree; leaves large, with
globose glands.

    =Grant Cling.= =1.= _Horticulturist_ N. S. =7=:180. 1857.

A clingstone peach from J. T. Grant, Georgia. Fruit above medium in
size, oblong, tapering; distinctly sutured; skin heavily pubescent,
with a pale cream color, blushed considerably; flesh pale red at the
stone, juicy, tender.

    =Grant Large Yellow.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 194. 1841.

Originated with a Mr. Grant, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; ripens late.

    =Grauer-Pfirsich.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Graven Red Cheek Cling.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =13=:110. 1847.

A seedling from Holmes County, Ohio.

    =Graves.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =21=:362. 1879.

    _Graves Semi-Cling._ =2.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 115. 1880.

    _Graves Early._ =3.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:816. 1896.

A supposed hybrid between the apricot and peach by William Graves,
Hazlehurst, Mississippi; larger and earlier than Alexander.

    =Gray.= =1.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._ =112=:171. 1900. =2.= _Ibid._
    =117=:308. 1901. =3.= _Ibid._ =156=:133. 1911.

Tree vigorous, productive; fruit medium to large, rather long and
flattened, with a prominent point at the apex; skin smooth, pale
yellow, sprinkled with red; flesh yellow, thick, firm, rich; freestone;
ripens the last of June; not recommended.

    =Great Eastern.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 614. 1869.

Great Eastern originated in the Fruitland Nurseries, Augusta, Georgia.
Glands globose; flowers small; fruit very large, round, often a trifle
flattened; skin greenish-white, with a red cheek; flesh white, juicy,
well-flavored; ripens the middle of July.

    =Great Northern.= =1.= _Ont. Sta. Rpt._ =3=:42. 1896.

Mentioned as growing in Ontario.

    =Great Western.= =1.= _Okla. Sta. Bul._ =2=:14. 1892. =2.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:214. 1899.

Trees strong, round-headed, moderately productive; glands reniform;
flowers small; fruit medium to large, roundish or slightly ovate;
cavity narrow, deep; apex prominent; skin creamy-white; flesh juicy,
white to the pit, firm, mild, slightly bitter; quality poor; pit
adherent, roundish-oval, pointed, plump; season the early part of
October.

    =Great White.= =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 580. 1629.

"The great white Peach is white on the outside as the meate is also,
and is a good well rellished fruit."

    =Green Catharine.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 95. 1831. =2.=
    _Horticulturist_ =1=:210, 258, 259. 1846-47. =3.= Leroy _Dict.
    Pom._ =6=:84 fig., 85. 1879.

W. R. Prince says, in the second reference, that Green Catharine was
brought to notice by his grandfather. Glands small, globose; flowers
small; fruit large, roundish, distinctly sutured; skin pale green
in shade, becoming whitish-yellow, streaked with carmine; flesh
greenish-white except at the stone, melting, fibrous, juicy, somewhat
acid; stone free, plump; ripens at the end of August.

    =Green Rareripe.= =1.= _Horticulturist_ =2=:401. 1847-48.

A productive and fine-flavored freestone adapted to New England. Glands
globose; flowers small; fruit of medium size; ripens in September.

    =Green Winter.= =1.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 18. 1820. =2.=
    Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:15. 1832.

Green Winter is of no value as a table fruit but makes beautiful
preserves, the fruits retaining their green color; the flesh is firm
and adheres closely to the stone; matures in October.

    =Gregory.= =1.= _Horticulturist N. S._ =5=:70. 1855.

    _Gregory Late_. =2.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 448. 1884.

Introduced by William Gregory, a nurseryman at Cirencester, England,
about 1849. It is an excellent, late, melting peach, but does not color
nor ripen well in ordinary seasons. Glands globose; flowers small;
fruit large, ovate, pointed; skin greenish, with a red blush; flesh
vinous, sugary, high in quality; ripens early in October.

    =Gresham.= =1.= _Cal. Sta. Rpt._ 357. 1895-97.

Listed in this reference.

    =Griffing No. 4. 1.= Griffing Bros. _Cat._ 20. 1914.

The catalog of Griffing Brothers, Jacksonville, Florida, describes the
fruit as large, roundish; skin golden yellow, nearly covered with red;
flesh streaked with red near the pit, fine-grained, juicy, subacid;
clingstone; ripens the last of June.

    =Grimes.= =1.= Munson _Cat._ 14. 1914-15.

Grimes is thought to be a second generation seedling from Mamie Ross,
which it closely resembles. It originated with T. H. Graves, Anderson,
Texas; ripens in Texas about June 20th, as described by the Munson
Nurseries, Denison, Texas.

    =Griswold.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 205. 1858. =2.= Elliott
    _Fr. Book_ 297. 1859.

Fruit large, round, greenish-white, slightly tinged with red; flesh
very juicy and highly flavored; ripens the middle of September.

    =Grosse Bourdine. 1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 49. 1876

Listed in this reference.

    =Grosse Gallande.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 186. 1841.

Fruit large, attractive, roundish; color white, with a red blush;
flavor excellent; ripens early in September.

    =Grosse Madeleine Lepére.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Grosse Mignonne.= =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:18, 19,
    Pl. X. 1768. =2.= _Pom. Mag._ =1=:23, Pl. 1828. =3.= Lindley
    _Guide Orch. Gard._ 258, 259. 1831. =4.= Downing _Fr. Trees
    Am._ 478. 1845. =5.= _Proc. Nat. Con. Fr. Gr._ 37, 51. 1848.
    =6.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 40, 219. 1876. =7.= Leroy _Dict.
    Pom._ =6=:162, 163 fig., 164. 1879. =8.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 449.
    1884.

    _Grimwood's Royal George._ =9.= Brookshaw _Pom. Brit._ =1=:Pl.
    21, fig. 1. 1817.

    _Early Vineyard._ =10.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 257. 1831.

    _Neil's Early Purple._ =11.= _Ibid._ 263, 264. 1831.

    _Royal Kensington._ =12.= _Ibid._ 271. 1831.

    _Superb Royal._ =13.= _Ibid._ 272, 273. 1831.

    _Gemeiner Lieblingspfirsich._ =14.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:201, 202. 1858.

    _Veloutée de Piémont._ =15.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 51. 1876.

    _Grosse Mignon Pfirsich._ =16.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 398, 399.
    1889.

The numerous synonyms for this variety are an evidence of the esteem in
which it was long held. It undoubtedly originated in France; according
to Leroy it was mentioned by Merlet in 1667. During the reign of
George the Third, Grimwood, of the Kensington Nursery, sent it out as
Grimwood's Royal George. A Mr. Lee of Hammersmith, England, called it
Early Vineyard; Shailer, of Chelsea, Superb Royal; Forsyth, a royal
gardener at Kensington in 1784, called it Royal Kensington. Lindley
described the same variety under several different names, apparently
believing them to be distinct. At the first meeting of the American
Pomological Society, in 1848, Grosse Mignonne was placed on the list
of recommended fruits, a place it held until 1899 when it was dropped.
Tree large, moderately vigorous, subject to mildew, productive;
glands small, globose; fruit large, roundish, depressed and marked
with a hollow suture at the top, which seems to divide it into two
lobes; color pale greenish-yellow, mottled with red which deepens to
brownish-red on the sunny side; flesh free, pale yellow, rayed with red
at the stone, melting, juicy, with a rich, delicate, vinous flavor;
quality good; ripens at the last of August.

    =Grosse Mignonne Lepére.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Grosse Mignonne Saint-Cyr.= =1.= Thomas Guide Prat. 52. 1876.

A variety of doubtful value, bearing globose glands and medium-sized
flowers.

    =Grosse Montagne Précoce.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =29=:53. 1863.

Another seedling from Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, which
sprang from a seed of a very early, clingstone peach; the fruit is
large and early, but a clingstone.

    =Grosse de Stresa.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 53. 1876.

Listed as received from Italy.

    =Grosse de Vitry.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 97. 1831.

Listed in this reference.

    =Grosser Blutpfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:194. 1858.

    _Sanguine à gros fruit._ =2.= Noisette _Man. Comp. Jard._
    =2=:477, 478. 1860.

This variety differs from Sanguinole in being larger.

    =Grosster Aprikosenpfirsich. 1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:220. 1858.

Flowers small, flesh-colored; fruit very large, roundish, lightly
sutured; skin yellow, often without any red; flesh yellow to the stone,
fine, sweet; clingstone; ripens at the end of August.

    =Grover Cleveland.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 314. 1889.

Grover Cleveland originated as a chance seedling with J. W. Gates,
Vacaville, California. Tree hardy, prolific; fruit small, yellow,
with a dark red cheek; flesh stained at the pit, firm; stone small,
clinging; good for shipping and canning.

    =Grover Red.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 188. 1881.

Grover Red is an early, white-fleshed freestone grown about Warsaw,
Illinois.

    =Grubbs Cling.= =1.= _N. Mex. Sta. Bul._ =30=:243. 1899.

Tested at the New Mexico Experiment Station.

    =Guadalupe.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 263. 1892. =2.= _Tex. Sta.
    Bul._ =39=:805. 1896.

G. Onderdonk, Nursery, Texas, grew Guadalupe from a peach of the
Spanish type. Glands reniform; fruit roundish-oblate, conical, small;
suture deep; apex prominent; skin covered with a short, persistent
down, thick, tough, dull creamy-white; flesh tinged at the stone,
vinous, aromatic; quality very good; clingstone; ripens in August in
southern Texas.

    =Gudgeon.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 301. 1890. =2.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:215. 1899.

Tree upright, roundish, not very productive; glands reniform; flowers
small; fruit medium to large, roundish; apex prominent; color
creamy-white, with a bright red blush; flesh red at the stone, juicy,
sprightly; quality fair; stone free, oval, pointed; season the first of
October.

    =Guespin.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 52. 1876.

A variety of doubtful merit, bearing reniform glands.

    =Guinn.= =1.= Ramsey _Cat._ 9. 1909.

According to F. T. Ramsey and Son, Austin, Texas, this variety was
raised by a Mr. Guinn, Cherokee County, Texas. As grown on the Station
grounds the fruits are very susceptible to brown-rot. Tree vigorous,
moderately hardy; glands small, globose; flowers appear in mid-season;
fruit of medium size, cordate, halves decidedly unequal; cavity deep
and wide, with a mamelon tip at the apex; skin moderately thin and
tough, covered with short, thick pubescence, deep yellow, blushed
with dull red, with a few carmine mottlings; flesh tinged with red at
the stone, juicy, coarse, firm, sprightly, moderately high in flavor,
fairly good; stone free, ovate, noticeably bulged; ripens the last of
August.

    =Gulley.= =1.= Bailey _Ann. Hort._ 173. 1890.

Mentioned as introduced by A. G. Gulley of Michigan in 1890.

    =Gurney.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:45, 46 fig. 1910.

One of the many late seedlings of the Chili type. Originated with C.
A. Gurney, Hart, Michigan. On the Station grounds it grows as follows:
Tree vigorous, spreading, an early bearer; fruit of medium size, conic,
cleft into halves by a deep suture which extends beyond the apex; skin
thick, tough, covered with short, thick pubescence, light yellow, with
a faint red cheek; flesh light yellow, red at the pit, fine, juicy,
mild subacid; quality very good; stone free.

    =Gustave Thuret.= =1.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 58. 1867.

The seed of this variety came from China and was planted about 1862 at
Antipolis, Alpes-Maritimes, France, by Gustave Thuret. Tree moderately
vigorous; leaves with small, reniform glands; flowers large; fruit very
small, halves unequal; noticeably sutured, with a small, mamelon tip at
the apex; skin whitish-yellow, with a red blush; flesh whitish-yellow,
tinged at the pit, firm though tender, juicy, sweet; stone ovoid, often
clinging; ripens the latter part of August.

    =Haas.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =104=:89. 1894. =2.= _Ibid._
    =169=:215. 1899.

    _John Haas._ =3.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 313. 1889.

A variety from Delaware resembling Hale Early and ripening with it.
Trees strong, spreading, moderately productive; glands reniform;
flowers large; fruit medium to large, roundish, faintly sutured; cavity
broad and deep; skin creamy-white, partially washed and striped with
red; flesh yellowish-white, juicy, tender, vinous; quality fair to
good; pit small, oval, plump, free; season from the first to the middle
of August.

    =Hacker Seedling.= =1.= _Am. Jour. Hort._ =3=:342. 1868.

Formerly grown about Makanda, Illinois.

    =Hague.= =1.= Harrison _Cat._ 18. 1910.

Hague is a large, yellow-fleshed freestone which ripens the last of
August, according to J. G. Harrison, Berlin, Maryland.

    =Haines.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 458. 1883.

    _Haines' Early Red._ =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 479. 1845.
    =3.= _Gen. Farmer_ =8=:243. 1847. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 78.
    1862.

Haines is an early peach from New Jersey. The variety has been
confused with several other sorts. Tree hardy, vigorous, productive;
glands globose; fruit of medium size, round, depressed at the base,
with a distinct suture extending nearly around the fruit; skin pale
yellowish-white, with deep red in the sun; flesh greenish-white,
melting, very juicy, sweet, with a pleasant flavor; quality good;
season the middle of August.

    =Hale.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 284. 1854.

    _Hale's Melocoton._ =2.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 193. 1849.

Hale originated with a Col. E. Hale of Stowe, Massachusetts. Fruit
moderately large, oblong, flattened at the base, with a slight suture
on one side; color bright yellow; flesh yellow, rich, sweet; of
excellent quality; freestone; ripens early in September.

    =Hale Oblong.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =104=:89. 1894. =2.=
    _Ibid._ =169=:215. 1899.

A seedling from C. C. Engle, Paw Paw, Michigan. Very similar to Hale
Round and Hale but more productive; fruit larger and pit less adherent
than Hale Early.

    =Hale Rareripe.= =1.= _La. Sta. Bul._ =3=:45. 1890.

Listed by the Louisiana Experiment Station.

    =Hale Round.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =104=:89. 1894. =2.=
    _Ibid._ =118=:35. 1895.

A seedling from C. C. Engle, Paw Paw, Michigan, very similar to Hale
Oblong. Tree more productive; fruit larger and pit less adherent than
Hale Early.

    =Hall.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Bul._ =62=:514. 1902.

    _Hall Yellow._ =2.= _Glen St. Mary Nur. Cat._ 13, 14. 1903.

Hall is a seedling of Angel. It was originated by R. C. Hall, Volusia
County, Florida, about 1900. Many years ago a Mr. Hall of Maine
originated a peach which he called Hall Down-Easter. Several writers
since, have, in describing the Hall, of Florida, erroneously given its
origin as Maine. Fruit large, roundish-oblate, sometimes inclined to
oblong, bulged on one side; suture very shallow; apex rounded; skin
yellow, washed with red; flesh yellow, red at the pit, with red lines
radiating into the flesh, meaty, moderately juicy, with an agreeable
acid flavor; quality good; stone free; season early.

    =Halliday.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 166. 1895.

Halliday is a medium-sized, white-fleshed clingstone, which ripens
about the first of August.

    =Halsteads Early.= =1.= _W. Va. Sta. Bul._ =82=:406. 1902.

Halsteads Early is a white-fleshed peach of medium size, ripening in
West Virginia the last of August.

    =Hamner.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =18=:241. 1876.

A chance seedling clingstone which sprung up in Galveston, Texas.

    =Hance.= =1.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:347. 1903. =2.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:215. 1899.

    _Hance Golden Rareripe._ =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 124. 1881.

    _Hance Golden._ =4.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =104=:89. 1894.

Hance originated in New Jersey. Trees fairly strong, moderately
productive; glands globose; flowers small; fruit medium to large,
roundish; suture indistinct; cavity broad; color yellow, with a dark
red cheek in the sun; flesh yellow, red at the pit, juicy, tender,
vinous; quality good; pit free; season early September.

    =Hance Smock.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =104=:89. 1894. =2.=
    _Ibid._ =169=:215. 1899.

Hance Smock came from Delaware. Tree upright, quite vigorous; glands
reniform; flowers small; fruit large, roundish to oval; deeply sutured
near the apex, often extending beyond; color pale yellow, with a
marbled cheek; flesh yellow except at the pit, moderately juicy,
tender, vinous; quality good; pit large, oval, pointed, free; season
early in October.

    =Hannah.= =1.= _Ind. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 64. 1902.

Hannah sprung from a seed of Arkansas, grown by William Hannah, Greene
County, Indiana. Flesh clear yellow, freestone; used for canning
locally.

    =Hape Early.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 50. 1879.

Raised by Dr. Samuel Hape, Atlanta, Georgia; equal to any early, white
variety known in 1879.

    =Hardy White Tuscany.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 317. 1889.

This variety is very susceptible to leaf-curl; fruit large, clear
white, with a pale pink wash; flesh very firm, white to the pit.

    =Harker.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 32. 1887.

    _Harker Seedling._ =2.= _Ohio Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 9. 1857. =3.=
    Elliott _Fr. Book_ 297. 1859. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 30.
    1877.

A popular variety from New Jersey which appeared on the American
Pomological Society's fruit-list in 1877 as Harker Seedling. In 1887
the name was changed to Harker and in 1891 the variety was dropped.
Glands globose; flowers small; fruit large, roundish; flesh yellow,
sweet, juicy; freestone; ripens early in September.

    =Harper Early.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 51. 1879. =2.=
    _Ibid._ 112. 1880.

Harper Early is said to have originated in Wilson County, Kansas. It is
neither as large nor as early as Amsden.

    =Harris Early.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 314. 1889.

Similar to Mountain Rose; a shy bearer.

    =Harris Winter.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =20=:340. 1878. =2.= _W. N.
    Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 112. 1880.

Harris Winter is a late variety of value in the South but too late for
cultivation in the North; originated in North Carolina.

    =Harter Blutpfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:194.
    1858.

A dark red clingstone somewhat similar to Sanguinole; flowers and stone
are small; ripens at the end of October.

    =Hartshorn.= =1.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 195. 1849.

J. Hartshorn, Reading, Massachusetts, introduced this seedling which is
said to reproduce itself from seed. Fruit large, roundish-oval, rich
yellow, deeply blushed; flesh rather coarse; clingstone; ripens the
middle of September; good for preserves.

    =Hastings.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Bul._ =73=:145. 1904.

Hastings is a Honey-like peach which originated with Griffing Brothers,
Macclenny, Florida, about 1900. Fruit medium to large, oval, very
irregular, with a recurved tip at the apex; cavity deep, abrupt; skin
very fuzzy, thin, tough, dull greenish-yellow, washed and streaked with
deep red; flesh red at the stone, firm, meaty, juicy, sweet; stone
free, oval, plump, with a broad, recurved point; season the last of
June.

    =Hastings Rareripe.= =1.= _Horticulturist_ =2=:400. 1847-48.

Probably of New England origin. Leaves with globose glands; flowers
small; fruit of medium size, roundish, often a little flattened; skin
yellowish-white, with a purplish-red cheek; ripens the middle of
September.

    =Hatch.= =1.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 192. 1849.

This variety originated in Franklin, Connecticut, with S. O. Hatch,
and reproduces itself from seed. Fruit very large, roundish, pointed;
suture shallow; skin deep yellow, blushed where exposed; flesh melting,
sweet; excellent; freestone; ripens September 1st.

    =Hâtive d'Aikelin.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 49. 1876.

    _Aikelin Frühpfirsich._ =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 386. 1889.

This peach originated in Württemberg, Germany; fruit of medium size,
globular; skin deep purple on a whitish ground; of first quality;
ripens late in August.

    =Hâtive de Chine.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 400. 1889.

Listed in the reference given.

    =Hâtive de Ferrières.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 617. 1857.
    =2.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 297. 1859.

A variety of French origin probably distinct from Grosse Mignonne.
Fruit of medium size, roundish, with a shallow suture; skin white,
nearly covered with rich red; flesh white, tinged with red at the
stone, juicy, melting, with a sweet, rich, vinous flavor, free; season
the last of August.

    =Hâtive de Gaillard.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 400. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Hâtive de Holland.= =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:229, 230, fig.
    113. 1866-73.

    _Frühe Hollandische._ =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 395. 1889.

Tree moderately vigorous; leaves with reniform glands; flowers large;
fruit of medium size, roundish, flattened at the ends; skin thin,
yellowish-white, striped with red; flesh white often to the pit,
melting, juicy, sweet, aromatic; stone clinging, large for the size of
the fruit, oval, acute at the base; ripens early in August.

    =Hâtive Lepère.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 400. 1889.

Listed without description.

    =Hatt.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 49. 1876.

Mentioned as received from France.

    =Haun Golden.= =1.= _Ont. Fr. Gr. Assoc. Rpt._ =25=:147. 1893.

Listed in this reference.

    =Haupt.= 1. _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:812. 1896. =2.= _Del. Sta.
    Rpt._ =13=:102. 1901.

Tree vigorous, unproductive; glands globose; fruit of medium size,
oval, with a pointed apex; skin creamy-white, blushed with red; flesh
rather acid; quality fair; stone clinging; ripens in Texas the last of
July.

    =Haupt Seedlings.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:34. 1889.

Haupt August, Haupt October Free, and Haupt No. 14, are seedlings,
listed but not described, originating with W. W. Haupt, Kyle, Texas.

    =Hawkins Winter.= =1.= _N. C. Sta. Rpt._ =12=:108. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Heath Ringold. 1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 206. 1896.

A small, red and white, freestone variety of no value.

    =Heckel.= =1.= Leonard Coates _Cat._ 7. 1910-11.

A yellow freestone raised by George Heckel, Morganhill, California,
according to Leonard Coates of that place.

    =Heim Lackpfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:215.
    1858.

A seedling originating about 1855. Tree productive; glands reniform,
large; flowers of medium size; fruit of medium size, roundish, somewhat
flattened, halves unequal; deeply sutured; skin yellowish-white, with
mottlings of purplish-red, heavily pubescent; flesh stained at the pit,
tender, juicy, aromatic; stone free, oval, acutely pointed; ripens late
in September.

    =Hemphill.= =1.= Hoopes Bros. & Thomas _Cat._ 16. 1907.

Hemphill originated with Judge Hemphill, West Chester, Pennsylvania,
according to the catalog of Hoopes Brother and Thomas Company of that
place. At Geneva this variety proves to be weak and unproductive. Fruit
large, white, clingstone; season early in October.

    =Hemskirk.= =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 105, Pl. 31 fig. 4. 1729.
    =2.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 259. 1831.

A beautiful, early fruit from the Royal Gardens at Kensington,
England. Leaves doubly serrate, glandless; flowers large, with a pale
rose-color; fruit below medium in size, oblate, somewhat narrowed at
the apex; skin greenish-yellow, with a bright red blush, marbled with
deeper red; flesh faintly tinged at the pit, melting, juicy, vinous;
stone free, small, nearly round, smooth; ripens at the end of August.

    =Henry Clay.= =1.= _Horticulturist_ N. S. =3=:139. 1853.

A southern peach grown by Rev. A. B. Lawrence, Woodville, Mississippi.
Leaves very large; fruit very large; skin creamy-white, with a deep
crimson blush; flesh white, with the peculiar flavor of both strawberry
and pineapple; pit small, free; ripens the last of July.

    =Henshaw.= =1.= _W. Va. Sta. Bul._ =82=:406. 1902.

A large, white peach with a red blush ripening the latter part of
August.

    =Herbert.= =1.= Bailey _Ann. Hort._ 185. 1892.

A cross between Chinese Cling and Salwey, introduced by J. H. Jones,
Georgia. Fruit large, yellow; clingstone; ripens about August 20th.

    =Hermione.= =1.= _Pa. Fr. Gr. Soc. Rpt._ 587. 1878.

A white-fleshed variety listed by the Pennsylvania Fruit-Growers'
Society.

    =Hero.= =1.= Bailey _Ann. Hort._ 185. 1892.

Hero was introduced by J. H. Jones of Georgia. It is a seedling of
Chinese Cling but larger, higher colored and freer from rot; ripens in
Georgia July 20th.

    =Hewellay.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Hewellen.= =1.= _Cultivator_ 3rd Ser. =4=:146. 1856.

A very early clingstone of southern origin.

    =Hicks Seedling.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 54. 1876.

Listed as a variety of American origin.

    =Hilard.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:816. 1896.

In Texas, Hilard proved a small, worthless variety ripening in October.

    =Hilborn.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 301. 1890. =2.= _Ibid._
    449. 1896.

One of the best peaches for British Columbia; fruit of medium size,
globular; color creamy-yellow, with a red cheek; flesh juicy, tender;
ripens the middle of August.

    =Hill Home Chief.= =1.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =170=:176, 1906.

A white-fleshed sort of no particular merit which ripens on the Station
grounds about the middle of September. Tree open, hardy, unproductive;
leaves with small, reniform glands; flowers appear in mid-season,
small; fruit above medium in size, oval-cordate, halves slightly
unequal; sides about the cavity drawn in, forming a prune-like neck;
suture extends about three-quarters around the fruit; skin thin, tough,
creamy, overlaid with a lively blush often becoming duller or even
lacking; flesh stained at the pit, rather dry, firm, sprightly; stone
free, obovate.

    =Hine Seedling.= =1.= Hooper _W. Fr. Book_ 222. 1857.

Raised by Daniel Hine of Talmadge, Ohio, from Heath Cling. Earlier and
better colored than its parent. Leaves with globose glands; flowers
large; fruit large, round; flesh juicy, sweet; clingstone; ripens in
September.

    =Hinkley Seedling.= =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 366. 1908.

A hardy seedling from Iowa.

    =Hlubek Lieblingspfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:206. 1858.

Glands reniform; flowers large, white; fruit of medium size, roundish,
deeply sutured; skin yellowish-white, with a dark red blush; flesh
red at the stone, sweet, vinous; stone oval, free; ripens early in
September.

    =Hobbs Early.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =3=:87. 1861.

O. T. Hobbs, Randolph, Pennsylvania, says this variety is a seedling of
Fay Early Anne, originating at the American Garden of Experiments. The
fruit is very early and the pit small.

    =Hobson.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:102. 1901.

Hobson is a seedling of Mamie Ross grown by E. W. Kirkpatrick,
McKinney, Texas. Fruit of medium size, oval, compressed; apex uneven,
blunt; skin firm, thick, creamy-white, faintly blushed; flesh firm,
moderately juicy, astringent; stone clinging, short, blunt; good for
canning.

    =Hobson Choice.= =1.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:236. 1898.

Originated on the grounds of the Georgia Experiment Station. It is very
similar to Admiral Dewey. Tree low in habit, spreading; leaves with
globose glands; fruit of medium size, globular, deep yellow; freestone;
ripens the last of June.

    =Hoffmanns White.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 97. 1831.

Glands reniform; flowers small; fruit of medium size, whitish, with a
red blush; flesh melting; quality good; ripens from the beginning to
the middle of September.

    =Hoffmans Favorite.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 97. 1831.

Leaves with reniform glands; flowers small; fruit medium in size,
melting, white; of second quality; ripens early in September.

    =Hoffner.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 292. 1854. =2.= Downing _Fr.
    Trees Am._ 617. 1869.

Originated near Cincinnati, Ohio. Glands globose; fruit medium to
large, roundish; skin greenish-white, blushed; flesh yellowish-white,
juicy; freestone; ripens in August.

    =Holderbaum.= =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =59=:706. 1900.

    _Holder._ =2.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:347. 1903.

Holderbaum originated in the mountains of Pennsylvania. The trees on
the Station grounds are weak and only moderately productive. Leaves
with small, globose glands; flowers appear in mid-season; fruit
medium to above in size, roundish-oblate; cavity deep, narrow; suture
deepens at the apex, often extending entirely around the fruit, with a
mucronate tip at the apex; skin thin, tough, covered with short, thick
pubescence, creamy-white, with a slight blush of red, often mottled
with darker red; flesh white, tinged at the stone, juicy, melting,
sprightly, rich; very good; stone free, rather small, oval; ripens at
the end of August.

    =Hollister.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 169. 1895.

Mentioned as a small, dry, white peach ripening in October.

    =Holsinger Salwey.= =1.= Stark Bros. _Cat._ 24. 1912.

According to Stark Brothers, Louisiana, Missouri, this variety is
supposed to be an improved Salwey from the orchard of Major Frank
Holsinger, Wyandotte County, Kansas. Rated by Mr. Holsinger as the best
of forty-nine Salwey seedlings raised by him.

    =Holt Early.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 188. 1881.

An early, white freestone from Warsaw, Illinois.

    =Honest Abe.= =1.= _Cal. Bd. Hort. Rpt._ 69. 1883. =2.= Wickson
    _Cal. Fruits_ 312. 1891.

Honest Abe is a California variety from Healdsburg; said to be
curl-proof. Fruit large, yellow, blushed; ripens between the Crawfords.

    =Honest John.= =1.= _U. S. Pat. Off. Rpt._ 299. 1854. =2.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 44. 1856. =3.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 115.
    1873. =4.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =59=:14. 1890. =5.= _Mich. Sta.
    Sp. Bul._ =44=:46. 1910.

Honest John is an old variety whose origin is given both as in western
New York and as in Michigan. The Honest John grown in Michigan and
disseminated by C. C. Engle of Paw Paw, is probably the true variety.
Half a century ago it was grown extensively in peach-sections but
inferior quality and small size of fruit condemn it. Several writers
have confused Honest John with Large York, George IV and Haines
but all of these are distinct. Tree large, vigorous; fruit large,
roundish-oval, compressed; apex roundish or slightly pointed; color
greenish-yellow changing to deep yellow, mottled and blushed with dull
carmine; fresh yellow, tinged with red near the pit, moderately juicy,
meaty yet tender, subacid, inferior in flavor; fair in quality; stone
free; ripens in mid-season.

    =Honey.= =1.= _Horticulturist_ N. S. =8=:456. 1858. =2.= _Jour.
    Hort._ N. S. =5=:188. 1863. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 617.
    1869. =4.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 450. 1884. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 30. 1889. =6.= _Fla. Sta. Bul._ =73=:141-143. 1904.

    _Montigny._ =7.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:69, 70, fig. 33. 1866-73.
    =8.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 59, 60. 1867. =9.= Leroy _Dict.
    Pom._ =6=:169, 170 fig. 1879.

Honey is a Chinese peach probably first raised in Europe from seed sent
to the Jardin des Plantes at Paris, by de Montigny, Consul of France,
at Shanghai. The name Honey may have been applied to it in England. It
reproduces itself closely from seed and a number of slight variations
from the original type have been found in America. The strain chiefly
grown in this country was raised by Charles Downing from seed brought
from China. Downing's seedlings failed but prior to their failure he
had sent grafts from them to Henry Lyons, Columbia, South Carolina,
who grew some trees. The variety was probably disseminated in America
from this source. In 1889 the American Pomological Society added Honey
to its list of fruits. Tree vigorous, hardy and productive in the
South; glands usually reniform but sometimes globose; fruit small to
medium, oblong-oval, tapering at the apex into a long, sharp nipple or
beak, and marked with a distinct suture; color whitish-yellow, washed
and dotted with red, which deepens to almost a crimson blush; flesh
creamy-white, streaked with red around the pit, juicy, very tender,
melting, sweet, with a distinct, rich, honey-like flavor; quality very
good; pit free; season in the South from the middle of June to the
first of July.

    =Honey Cling.= =1.= _Cal. Sta. Rpt._ 369, 371, 373. 1892-94.

Fruit white, very highly colored and very sweet.

    =Honey Seedling.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:86, 89. 1896.

A seedling of Honey propagated by the Florida Station.

    =Honeywell.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 299. 1875.

John Honeywell, Randolph, Ohio, raised this peach. Said to be earlier
than Alexander.

    =Hoover Heath.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 32. 1887. =2.= _Ga.
    Sta. Bul._ =42=:236. 1898.

    _Hoover Late Heath._ =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 28. 1873.

    _Hoover Late._ =4.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 297. 1875.

This variety is a seedling of Heath. It appeared on the fruit-list
of the American Pomological Society in 1873 as Hoover Late Heath. In
1887 the name was changed to its present form; in 1899 the variety was
dropped. Tree low in habit, straggling, spreading; glands reniform.

    =Hopes Early Red.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:34. 1889.

Listed but not described.

    =Hopkinsville.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 3rd App. 170. 1881.

Raised from seed by James Quisenburg, near Hopkinsville, Kentucky. Tree
reproduces itself from seed; leaves without glands; flowers small;
fruit large, oblong, with a mamelon tip at the apex; skin dull white,
quite downy, mottled with red; flesh tinged with red at the stone,
juicy, melting; freestone; ripens early in September.

    =Horton Delicious.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 637. 1857.

Probably from Georgia. Fruit large, roundish, inclining to oval; suture
shallow; skin moderately downy, creamy-white, with a faint blush; flesh
white to the stone, with a Heath Cling flavor; quality best; ripens
from the first to the middle of October.

    =Horton Rivers.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 73, 74. 1890.

Horton Rivers is a seedling of Early Rivers and is very similar to
it. The trees did not prove hardy nor productive on the Station
grounds. Tree dense and spreading; leaves long and broad, with reniform
glands; blossoms appear early; fruit of medium size, roundish-oval,
oblique; suture indistinct except at the ends; apex with a prolonged,
recurved tip; skin thin, tough, covered with short, thick pubescence,
creamy-white, with a slight blush usually near the cavity; flesh white,
juicy, tender, sweet, sprightly, high in flavor; quality good; stone
free, large, oval, faintly obovate, not very plump; ripens the third
week in August.

    =Houpt October.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:816. 1896.

Listed in this reference.

    =Howard.= 1. _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 111. 1880.

A seedling raised by E. F. Hynes of Kansas.

    =Howell Cling.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:812. 1896.

Tree fairly vigorous and productive; glands small, reniform; fruit of
medium size, roundish, creamy-white; clingstone; ripens the last of
August.

    =Howers Frühpfirsich.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 401. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Hoyte Lemon Cling.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =6=:414. 1826.

A seedling of Pineapple which originated with a Mr. Hoyte of New York
City. Fruit very large, resembles Pineapple; ripens late.

    =Hubbard Early.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 298. 1859.

Hubbard Early is a medium-sized, white-fleshed peach of fair quality;
season from July to August.

    =Hudson.= =1.= _Am. Gard._ =21=:693 fig. 1900.

Hudson is a yellow peach put out by H. S. Wiley, Cayuga, New York. The
trees on the Station grounds were not productive; stone free; season
very late.

    =Hudson November.= =1.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._ =11=:9. 1890.

Flowers large; fruit of medium size, white; flesh firm; clingstone;
ripens late in October; easily injured by drouth.

    =Hughes I. X. L.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 392. 1891. =2.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:30. 1895.

Glands reniform; flowers large; fruit of medium size, greenish-yellow,
mottled and striped with deep crimson; flesh lemon-yellow, mild
subacid; clingstone; season late in October in the South where it may
be profitable.

    =Hull Athenian.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 638. 1857.

Named after Henry Hull, Jr., of Athens, Georgia. Fruit very large,
oblong; suture but a line; skin very downy, yellowish-white, marbled
with dull red where exposed; flesh white, pale red at the stone, firm,
vinous; ripens in October.

    =Hull Late.= =1.= Leonard Coates _Cat._ 7. 1911.

According to Leonard Coates, Morganhill, California, this variety is a
very late, market clingstone, valuable for shipping.

    =Hunter.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 95. 1854.

    _Hunter Favorite._ =2.= _Horticulturist_ =15=:491. 1860.

Dr. Hunter of Lincoln, North Carolina, raised this freestone peach;
color yellow; stone small; season the last of September.

    =Husted Early.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 42. 1895. =2.=
    _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:47. 1910.

Husted Early, or Husted No. 16 as it was first called, is often
confused with Early Michigan. Although they are very similar in fruit,
the tree-characters are different. Glands globose; flowers large; fruit
roundish, medium in size; skin woolly, greenish-white, with a crimson
blush, thick, tenacious; flesh fine-grained, juicy, subacid; stone
oval, free; ripens in Georgia early in July.

    =Husted's Seedlings.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 191. 1879.

In this reference are described several seedlings which were sent out
by J. D. Husted, Lowell, Michigan, from a large number originated by
him.

    =Husted No. 17.= This variety is thought to have originated
    as a cross between Chili and Hale Early. Fruit large,
    creamy-white, marbled with dark red; flesh creamy-white, firm,
    melting, juicy, mild, sweet, rich; ripens early.

    =Husted No. 20.= Fruit nearly large; color clear yellow,
    striped and shaded with dark red; flesh bright yellow, almost
    melting, very juicy, mild, vinous, rich.

    =Husted No. 22.= Fruit medium to large, bright yellow, with a
    dull red blush; flesh pale yellow, delicate, melting, juicy,
    very mild, vinous.

    =Husted No. 26.= Fruit large, clear yellow, with a dark red
    blush; flesh bright yellow, fine-grained, melting, juicy, rich,
    with a mild, vinous, almost almond flavor.

    =Husted No. 46.= Fruit large, yellow, faintly marbled with dull
    red; flesh orange-yellow, dark red at the pit, firm, slightly
    fibrous, juicy, with a mild acid flavor.

    =Huston Seedling.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:98. 1892.

Listed as growing in Delaware.

    =Hutchinson.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =13=:31. 1871.

This fruit is similar in appearance to the old Red Rareripe. The
variety is said to have borne regularly for forty years in the vicinity
of Reading, Massachusetts.

    =Hyatt.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 159. 1889. =2.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =118=:35. 1895.

Hyatt is very much like Hale Early but more highly colored and better
flavored; when fully ripe it is nearly free from the pit.

    =Hybride Quétier.= =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 115. 1888.

This variety grew from a pit of Grosse Mignonne fertilized by an
apricot. Fruit of medium size, pale yellow, very juicy; ripens in
October.

    =Hydelberg.= =1.= _Kan. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 228. 1910-11.

Hydelberg is a good, yellow peach ripening in Kansas about August 10th.

    =Hynds Yellow.= =1.= Munson _Cat._ 6. 1903-04.

Hynds Yellow is briefly described by the Munson Nurseries, Denison,
Texas. It ripens earlier than Elberta. On the Station grounds it is
a very mediocre sort. Tree vigorous, upright; leaves with small,
globose glands; flowers appear in mid-season; fruit of medium size,
roundish-oval, bulged near the apex, halves unequal; apex tipped
with a small, recurved, mamelon point; skin covered with long, thick
pubescence, thin, tough, light orange-yellow, with few stripes and
splashes of dull red; flesh stained with red at the stone, juicy, firm,
mild, not very pleasing; stone free, small, oval to ovate, usually
bulged near the apex.

    =Hynes Nectar.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 111. 1880.

This peach originated with E. F. Hynes, West Plains, Missouri. It is
said by the originator to be a delicious freestone ripening a few days
before Hynes.

    =Hyslop Cling.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:27. 1832. =2.=
    Hooper _W. Fr. Book_ 223. 1857. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 78.
    1862.

This variety is named after David Hyslop, Brookline, Massachusetts, who
disseminated cions of it as early as 1810. It was very desirable for
northern climates and for that reason was placed on the fruit-list of
the American Pomological Society in 1862 where it remained until 1897.
Fruit large, roundish; skin white, with a crimson blush; flesh very
juicy, vinous; ripens in October.

    =Hyslop Favorite.= =1.= _Okla. Sta. Bul._ =2=:14. 1892.

Listed as growing in Oklahoma.

    =Ice Mountain.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:30. 1895. =2.=
    _Ibid._ =152=:197, 200. 1898.

A very late freestone from Delaware. Flowers large; glands reniform;
fruit small though good; moderately productive.

    =Idaho Mammoth.= =1.= Stark Bros. _Cat._ 37. 1913.

According to Stark Brothers, Louisiana, Missouri, this peach is a
large, yellow-fleshed freestone which originated with Major Manning of
Idaho.

    =Imperatrice Eugenie.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 49. 1876.

Glands globose; flowers of medium size; fruit large, of first quality;
ripens at the end of September.

    =Imperial (Middleton).= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 298. 1859.

An American variety of unknown origin. Fruit large, roundish, yellow
mingled with red; flesh yellow, sweet, free; ripens the middle of
September.

    =Imperial (Pettit).= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 298. 1859.

Elliott mentions this variety as of American origin. Fruit large,
roundish-oval, yellow, with red in the sun; flesh yellow, juicy, sweet,
subacid, free; season the middle of September.

    =Improved Pyramidal.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 75. 1873.

The habit of this variety is similar to that of a Lombardy poplar; it
often attains a height of thirty feet. The original tree was found in
Kentucky by W. P. Robinson. Fruit medium to large; skin white, covered
with carmine; flesh juicy, melting, vinous; quality best; matures
August first.

    =Incomparable.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =5=:549. 1824.
    =2.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 275. 1831.

    _Pavie Admirable._ =3.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 232. 1832.

Incomparable ripens with and is very similar to Catharine. The variety
appeared on the list of fruits of the American Pomological Society
from 1877 to 1897. Leaves crenate, with reniform glands; flowers small,
pale; fruit large, roundish, with a slight swelling on one side; skin
light yellow, pale red in the sun, becoming deep crimson; flesh tinged
with red at the pit, juicy, sugary; stone roundish, nearly smooth,
adherent.

    =Incomparable en Beauté.= =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 224. 1866.

A showy fruit but only fair in quality. Glands round; flowers small;
fruit large, round, depressed at the ends; skin pale yellowish-green,
streaked with crimson where exposed; flesh white, stained at the stone,
melting, juicy, vinous; ripens the middle of September.

    =Incomparable Guilloux.= =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 478. 1905.

M. Guilloux, horticulturist at Saint-Genis Laval, Rhône, France,
obtained this variety by crossing Bonouvrier and Amsden. Tree vigorous;
leaves glandless; flowers small; fruit large, roundish, highly colored;
flesh melting, juicy, sweet, aromatic; stone slightly adherent; ripens
with Hale Early.

    =Indian.= =1.= _Wash. Bd. Hort. Rpt._ 139, 140. 1893.

A singular and peculiar fruit raised by a Mr. Coxe from a seed brought
from Georgia. Tree a slow grower and moderately productive. Fruit
large, roundish, broad and depressed; flesh bright yellow, of the
texture of a very ripe pineapple, rich, juicy, and of a very excellent
flavor; stone free.

    =Indian Chief.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 290. 1893.

A seedling of Hughes I. X. L., evidently of the Spanish type; of
little value. Trees on the Station grounds spreading, vigorous; leaves
coarsely crenate; glands reniform; fruit large, roundish, pointed;
cavity large, deep; surface rather harsh; skin thick, tough, dark
yellow, striped and splashed; flesh yellow, streaked with red near
stone and skin, firm, mild, subacid; stone oval, clinging; ripens in
Louisiana the second week in August.

    =Indian Rose.= =1.= _N. J. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 107. 1912.

Mentioned as growing in New Jersey.

    =Infant Wonder.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 114. 1880.
    =2.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:35. 1895. =3.= _Ibid._ =169=:216.
    1899.

Infant Wonder was raised by Captain Daniel Webster, Denison, Texas.
Tree strong, spreading; glands globose; flowers small; fruit large,
roundish; cavity narrow, deep; skin creamy-white, with a thin blush
where exposed; flesh red at the pit, juicy, tender, vinous, with a
slight bitterness; pit large, oval, pointed, free; ripens the last of
August.

    =Ingold.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 33. 1899.

    _Ingold Lady._ =2.= _Gard. Mon._ =26=:80. 1884.

Ingold originated with Alfred Ingold, Guilford County, North Carolina.
On the Station grounds the variety proved a very shy bearer, with
fruit of fair size, high in quality. Tree upright-spreading, tall;
leaves long, broad, with small, globose glands; flowers appear late;
fruit roundish to cordate; cavity deep; apex somewhat pointed, with
a recurved, mamelon tip; skin tough, covered with short, thick
pubescence, pale yellow deepening to orange, with splashes of dull,
dark red; flesh yellow, tinged at the stone, juicy, firm but tender,
sweet, rich; very good; stone free, ovate-cordate, plump; ripens the
last of August.

    =Ingraham.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 108. 1885.

Ingraham, named after its originator, was introduced by Joseph J.
Robinson, Lamont, Michigan. Fruit of medium size, dull greenish-white,
with a few spots and blotches of red; freestone; quality good; ripens
the middle of September.

    =Ireland Choice.= =1.= _Okla. Sta. Bul._ =2=:14. 1892.

Listed by the Oklahoma Station.

    =Ironclad.= =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 138. 1911.

A very hardy variety in Iowa; similar to Bailey in tree and fruit.

    =Isabella.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 211. 1676.

"Isabella peach is a fair reddish-yellow colour, and good taste."

    =Island.= =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 580. 1629.

"The Island peach is a faire Peach and of a very good rellish."

    =Ispahan.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =1=:180, 181. 1831. =2.=
    Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 215. 1832.

    _Ispahaner Strauchpfirsich._ =3.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:195. 1858.

This variety was discovered in 1799 by Brugniere and Oliver at Ispahan,
Persia. The tree attains a height of twelve feet and forms a thick,
round bush filled with numerous slender branches. Leaves from one to
two inches long, finely serrated, devoid of glands; fruit spherical,
whitish-green; flesh melting, juicy; freestone; matures the middle of
September.

    =Italian.= =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 107, Pl. 33, fig. 5. 1729.

    _Italienischer Lackpfirsich._ =2.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:212. 1858.

    _Pêche d'Italie._ =3.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 49. 1876.

The fruit of this variety is very similar to that of Chevreuse Hâtive
but larger; its flowers are smaller; ripens the middle of September.

    =Italian Red.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:98. 1892.

Listed by Charles Wright, Seaford County, Delaware.

    =Italienischer Lieblingspfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ.
    Obstkunde_ =3=:208. 1858.

Flowers large; fruit large, roundish, noticeably sutured, creamy-white,
with a faint blush; flesh aromatic; clingstone; ripens early in August.

    =Ives Blood Free.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 404. 1894. =2.=
    Billings _Cat._ 22. 1906.

Medium to large in size, blood-red throughout. Tree hardy, productive;
glands reniform; flowers large.

    =J. Van.= =1.= Van Lindley _Cat._ 60. 1913.

Originated about 1900 with W. E. Johnson, Silver City, North Carolina.
It is probably a seedling of Elberta, which variety precedes it in
ripening, according to. J. Van Lindley, Pomona, North Carolina.

    =Jack Ross.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:34. 1889.

The Texas Experiment Station lists this variety.

    =Jackson Cling.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 638. 1857. =2.=
    _Horticulturist_ N. S. =7=:178. 1857.

This peach is a seedling raised many years ago by Mrs. L. A. Franklin,
Athens, Georgia. Fruit large, oblong, with a large, swollen apex; color
dark yellow, covered with a dark red blush; flesh orange-yellow, dark
red at the pit, firm, juicy, sprightly, rich; good; season the last of
August.

    =Jacques.= =1.= Hovey _Fr. Am._ =2=:57, Pl. 1851. =2.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 78. 1862.

    _Jacques' Yellow Rareripe._ =3.= Prince _Treat. Hort._ 18.
    1828. =4.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 223. 1832.

    _Jacques' Rareripe._ =5.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 631. 1857.

    _Jaques._ =6.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 275. 1854. =7.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 37. 1909.

This variety originated or was introduced by Colonel Jacques,
Somerville, Massachusetts, at least a hundred years ago. It held a
place in the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society from 1862
to 1891 when it was dropped but in 1909 was replaced. Leaves crenate,
with reniform glands; fruit large, roundish, often compressed, with
a shallow suture; skin yellow, much streaked and mottled with red;
flesh yellow, red at the pit, free, melting, juicy, with a sweet yet
sprightly flavor; season the middle of September.

    =Jacques Late.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:217. 1899.

Tree vigorous, roundish, with large leaves bearing globose glands;
fruit medium to large, roundish-ovate; suture shallow; color
creamy-white, with a light red blush; flesh creamy-white, red at the
pit, free, tender, juicy, rather acid, slightly bitter; quality good;
season the last of September.

    =Jakobi-Aprikosenpfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:220. 1858.

Flowers medium in size; fruit of medium size, roundish, faintly
sutured; skin clear yellow, blushed with red; flesh firm, aromatic;
matures at the end of July.

    =Jane.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =19=:516. 1853. =2.= Downing _Fr.
    Trees Am._ 617. 1857.

Originated with Isaac B. Baxter, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Fruit
large, roundish-oblate; color yellowish-white, with a red cheek;
quality very good; freestone; ripens at the last of September.

    =Japan Nos. 1, 2 and 3.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:98. 1892.

Three varieties listed by the Delaware Station.

    =Japan Nos. 7 and 10.= =1.= _Col. O. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 151. 1893.

Varieties sent out by Lovett's Nursery Company, Little Silver, New
Jersey; both are small, late clingstones unworthy of cultivation.

    =Japan No. 9.= =1.= _Col. O. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 150. 1893.

A medium-sized, white, freestone of good quality; very susceptible to
rot.

    =Japan Dwarf.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =129=:24. 1896. =2.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 37. 1909.

    _Japan Blood._ =3.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 54. 1892. =4.= _Miss.
    Sta. Bul._ =93=:13. 1905.

    _Japan Dwarf Blood._ =5.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:819. 1896. =6.=
    Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:348. 1903.

    _Japan Dream._ =7.= _Winfield Nur. Cat._ 14, 15. 1915.

This variety was introduced about a quarter of a century ago from
Japan. It is dwarf in habit of growth and comes into bearing early,
frequently two years from planting. Japan Dream, said to be a superior
strain of this variety, seems to be in every way identical. Tree low,
dwarfish, spreading, with a compact head, productive; fruit medium
in size, roundish, somewhat flattened and pointed at the apex; color
attractive greenish-yellow, mostly overspread with crimson; flesh
blood-red, juicy, acid until fully ripe when it becomes very good;
stone free; season very early.

    =Japanese Early.= =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =15=:289. 1897.

Leaves large, with globose glands; fruit of medium size, roundish; skin
light greenish-yellow, with considerable dull purplish-red; flesh white
to the pit, moderately juicy, insipid; stone free, of medium size;
ripens the middle of August.

    =Japanese Wonder.= =1.= _La. Sta. Bul._ =112=:31. 1908.

An inferior variety, ripening in Louisiana the last of June.

    =Jarle Late.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:66. 1900.

    _Jarle Late White._ =2.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 404. 1894.

Tree a moderate grower.

    =Jarrell Late Yellow.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:98. 1892.

Listed in this reference.

    =Jarretts Late White.= =1.= _Pa. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 48. 1882.

Listed as growing in Pennsylvania.

    =Jaune d'Agen.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 49. 1876.

Listed as an excellent variety; glands reniform.

    =Jaune de Barsac.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 401. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Jaune de Bertholon.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:159, 160, fig.
    16. 1883.

An old variety from Toulouse, Haute-Garonne, France. Leaves with large,
reniform glands; flowers large; fruit of medium size, irregularly
roundish-ovoid; skin thin, tender, yellow, purple where exposed; flesh
deep yellow, stained at the pit, tender, melting, sweet; stone large
for the size of fruit, free; ripens at the end of August.

    =Jaune des Capucins.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:135, 136, fig.
    4. 1883.

A variety raised from seed in the gardens of the Capuchin Monks,
Toulouse, Haute-Garonne, France. Tree vigorous; leaves with large,
reniform glands; flowers small; fruit large, roundish, deeply sutured;
cavity large, deep; skin thin, fine, clear yellow, deep red where
exposed; flesh deep yellow, stained at the stone, melting, aromatic;
quality excellent; stone of medium size, oval, nearly free; ripens the
first half of September.

    =Jaune d'Espagne.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Jaune Hâtive de Doué.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 44. 1876.

Tree vigorous; glands reniform; flowers small; fruit large,
roundish-oval; skin yellow, with a red blush; flesh melting, juicy,
agreeable; ripens the last of August.

    =Jaune de Mezen.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Jellico.= =1.= _Texas Nur. Cat._ 4. 1913.

According to the Texas Nursery Company, Sherman, Texas, Jellico is a
white, oblong clingstone, very fine for canning; matures in August.

    =Jennings.= =1.= _Franklin Davis Nur. Cat._ 21. 1907.

The Franklin Davis Nursery Company, Baltimore, Maryland, states that
Jennings originated in Richmond, Virginia. On the Station grounds the
fruit is very similar to Elberta but ripens later. Tree vigorous,
productive; leaves large, with reniform glands; flowers appear in
mid-season; fruit large, oval-cordate, halves unequal, with a faint
drawing in of the sides about the cavity; apex often with a recurved,
mamelon tip; skin thick, tough, covered with thick, coarse pubescence,
lemon-yellow to darker, with a lively red blush becoming duller,
attractive; flesh light yellow, stained at the pit, juicy, stringy,
resembles Elberta; stone free, large, oval to ovate, more or less
purple.

    =Jersey Mixon.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 77. 1893.

Exhibited at the World's Fair in 1893.

    =Jersey Pride.= =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =53=:7. 1894.

Jersey Pride originated with the Newark Nursery, Newark, New Jersey.

    =Jersey Yellow.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =129=:24. 1896. =2.=
    _Ibid._ =169=:217. 1899.

Trees spreading; glands reniform; flowers small; fruit of medium size,
roundish-oval, enlarged on one side of the suture; cavity narrow, deep;
distinctly sutured; color clear yellow, slightly blushed; flesh red at
the pit, moderately juicy, mild, often slightly bitter; stone plump,
free; quality fair; matures early in October.

    =Jewel.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:86. 1896. =2.= _Fla. Sta.
    Bul._ =62=:514, 515. 1902. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 37. 1909.

Jewel, one of the leading commercial peaches of Florida, is a seedling
of Waldo. It originated with T. K. Godbey, Waldo, Florida. Fruit
oblong, medium to large; cavity abrupt; suture frequently lacking; apex
bluntly pointed, short, recurved; skin velvety, creamy, washed with red
where exposed; flesh white, faintly stained at the stone, juicy, sweet;
stone free, reddish, oval, one inch long; ripens two weeks earlier than
Waldo.

    =Johnson Late Purple.= =1.= Brookshaw _Pom. Brit._ =1=:Pl. 24,
    fig. 1. 1817.

This variety is peculiarly marked with large, strong, dark blotches and
heavy pubescence. It received its name from its originator, a gardener
at Kew Green, England. The tree is an excellent bearer and ripens its
fruit late in August.

    =Jones.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:30. 1895. =2.= _Ibid._
    =169=:217. 1899.

Tree strong, roundish-upright; glands globose; flowers small; fruit
large, inclined to ovate; cavity deep; suture distinct, two-thirds
around fruit; color yellow, with a mottled cheek of dark red; flesh
yellow, red at the pit, juicy, vinous; pit long, oval, nearly free;
quality fair to good; ripens the middle of September.

    =Jones Cling.= =1.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:237. 1898.

Listed as a round-topped, dense tree, with medium-sized leaves and
reniform glands.

    =Jones Early.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =13=:447, 448. 1847.

Raised by S. T. Jones, Staten Island, New York. Leaves crenate, with
small, globose glands; fruit of medium size, roundish, oblique at the
apex; suture shallow, extending around the fruit; skin yellowish-white,
tinged with pale red in the sun; flesh yellowish-white, stained at the
stone, tender, juicy, rich; stone small, free; ripens early in August.

    =Jones Large Early.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =13=:447. 1847.

Another of S. T. Jones' seedlings; leaves with reniform glands; fruit
large, roundish, flattened at the ends; suture deep; skin clear white,
blushed with crimson where exposed; flesh white, pink at the stone,
juicy, rich, sprightly; stone of medium size; ripens early in August.

    =Jones No. 34.= =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =15=:290. 1897.

Fruit medium to small, roundish; cavity broad; skin bright yellow,
downy; flesh stained at the stone, mild, firm, rather dry, poor in
quality; freestone; ripens at this Station early in September.

    =Jose Sweet.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 200. 1841. =2.=
    _Horticulturist_ =2=:400. 1847-48.

A peach of delicious flavor but not very attractive outwardly;
greenish-white, with a dull cheek. Flowers small; glands globose;
ripens the last of September.

    =Josephine.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 188. 1880.

Josephine is a seedling of Late Crawford grown by C. C. Engle, Paw
Paw, Michigan, about 1875. On the Station grounds the fruit ripens
early in October. Tree hardy, vigorous, productive; leaves with crenate
margins and globose glands; fruit large, roundish; cavity broad; suture
shallow; skin orange-yellow, with a heavy, dark red blush, considerably
mottled, heavily pubescent; flesh stained at the stone, juicy, rich,
vinous; quality good; stone large, elliptical, free.

    =Joys Early.= =1.= _N. J. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 107. 1912.

Joys Early was introduced by R. G. Joyce of New York. The variety was
grown for a time in New Jersey.

    =Judd.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:49. 1910.

This is a cross between Chili and Barnard made by G. E. Prater, Jr.,
Paw Paw, Michigan. It is said to be an improvement over its parents.

    =Jühlke Liebling.= =1.= Lauche _Deut. Pom._ =VI=:No. 13, Pl.
    1882.

Raised from seed by August Fritze of Werder, near Potsdam, Prussia,
Germany, in 1870. Tree vigorous, bears early; leaves of medium size,
with small glands; flowers large, rose-colored; fruit large, globular,
strongly sutured; skin heavily pubescent, thin, pale yellow, with a
red blush; flesh yellowish-white, melting, aromatic, sweet; freestone;
ripens at the end of August.

    =Julia.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 205. 1858.

A southern variety.

    =June Beauty.= =1.= _Cal. Sta. Rpt._ 408. 1892-93. =2.= _Fla.
    Sta. Bul._ =62=:515. 1902.

June Beauty originated with Peter C. Minnich, Waldo, Florida, from
a seed of Peento. Fruit medium to large, roundish-oblong; stone
semi-clinging; ripens the middle of June in Florida.

    =June Elberta.= =1.= Stark Bros. _Cat._ 43. 1914.

June Elberta was introduced by Stark Brothers, Louisiana, Missouri. In
the hands of some growers it is thought to be Arp, which it closely
resembles.

    =June Rose.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =104=:89. 1894. =2.=
    _Ibid._ =118=:30, 35. 1895. =3.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:812.
    1896. =4.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:103. 1901.

June Rose is a seedling of Rivers crossed with Mountain Rose grown by
T. V. Munson, Denison, Texas. Tree fairly vigorous and productive;
glands globose; flowers large; fruit of medium size, roundish; suture
distinct; skin greenish-white, with a red cheek; flesh white, stained
at the stone, juicy, tender, vinous; freestone; ripens in Texas about
the middle of June.

    =Juneripe.= =1.= Childs _Cat._ 147. 1905.

A variety listed by J. L. Childs, Floral Park, New York. A large,
handsomely colored, yellow peach ripening at the end of June.

    =Juno I.= =1.= Berckmans _Cat._ 13. 1899. =2.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._
    =13=:103, 104. 1901.

Dr. L. E. Berckmans, Augusta, Georgia, raised Juno I from a seed of
General Lee in 1879. Fruit large, deep yellow, mottled; flesh fine,
juicy, subacid; ripens the middle of August in Georgia.

    =Juno II.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 188. 1880.

This is another of C. C. Engle's seedlings of Late Crawford grown at
Paw Paw, Michigan. Tree hardy, vigorous, productive; leaves long,
broad, with globose glands; fruit very large, round, compressed; skin
yellow, dark red in the sun; flesh slightly stained at the pit, vinous,
juicy, rich; clingstone; ripens October first.

    =Kallola.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 301. 1890. =2.= Lovett
    _Cat._ 41. 1893. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:30, 35. 1895.

    _Kaloola Free._ =4.= _La. Sta. Bul._ =68=:843. 1894.

A seedling of Chinese Cling; glands reniform; flowers large;
fruit large, roundish-oval; skin white, tinged in the sun; flesh
greenish-white, faintly stained about the pit, tender, juicy, vinous;
quality fair; freestone; ripens the middle of September.

    =Kalo Cling.= =1.= _La. Sta. Bul._ =68=:843. 1894.

Grown about Calhoun, Louisiana.

    =Karl Schwarzenberg.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde._ =3=:205.
    1858.

    _Charles Schwarzenberg._ =2.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 48. 1876.

A seedling of Early Purple, introduced about 1827. Trees vigorous;
glands globose; flowers large; fruit large, roundish, strongly sutured;
skin whitish-yellow, with a red blush; flesh white throughout, fine,
juicy, aromatic; freestone; ripens early in September.

    =Katherine.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:104. 1901.

The origin and parentage of Katherine are unknown. Said to be the
earliest, good, clingstone peach; tree prolific and productive.

    =Katie.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 44. 1891.

Katie held a place on the fruit-list of the American Pomological
Society from 1891 until 1897. Fruit small, greenish-white; late in
ripening.

    =Kay.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 203. 1879.

Recommended in Hancock County, Illinois.

    =Keene Favorite.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 156. 1880.

A variety that does well about Centralia, Illinois.

    =Keevit Cling.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:66.
    1900.

Listed as a medium grower in Canada.

    =Keith.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 290. 1893.

Keith is a seedling of Peento ripening a little later than its parent.
It originated with Robert Keith, Waldo, Florida. Fruit roundish-oval,
of medium size; suture deep near the base; cavity deep; skin thick,
tender, greenish-yellow, mottled and shaded with red; flesh white,
tinged at the stone, tender, melting, subacid, slightly bitter; quality
good; stone plump, oval, clinging.

    =Kelley Early.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 115. 1880.

Raised by H. M. Kelley, Irving, Illinois; said to ripen three weeks
before Amsden.

    =Kelly Surprise.= =1.= _Texas Nur. Cat._ 5. 1913.

A semi-clingstone, yellow-fleshed variety ripening in June, according
to the Texas Nursery Company, Sherman, Texas.

    =Kelsey Cling.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 188. 1880.

Named after its originator, Stephen Kelsey, Three Rivers, Michigan.
Tree vigorous; leaves crenate, with reniform glands; fruit of medium
size, roundish; skin with a light coat of pubescence, creamy-white,
with a marbled cheek; flesh stained at the pit, tender, firm, juicy,
rich; ripens with Heath Cling.

    =Kenrick Clingstone.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 185. 1835.

A variety of New England origin first fruiting in 1833. Fruit large,
roundish-oblong, pointed at the apex; color golden-yellow, with a red
cheek; flesh yellow, juicy, sweet, vinous, excellent; season the last
of September.

    =Kent I.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 42, 43. 1895. =2.=
    _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:48. 1910.

J. D. Husted called this peach, his seedling No. 18, Kent, in honor
of the county in Michigan where it originated. Glands globose; fruit
roundish, above medium in size; skin rather harsh, with short down,
greenish-white, washed, mottled and striped with crimson; flesh stained
at the stone, tender yet firm, juicy, subacid; ripens in Georgia early
in July.

    =Kent II.= =1.= Berckmans _Cat._ 9. 1908-09.

The catalog of P. J. Berckmans, Augusta, Georgia, describes this peach
as a new clingstone originating with L. W. Kent, Augusta, Georgia; skin
very tough but peels readily; flesh yellow, buttery; ripens in Georgia
August 1st to 15th.

    =Kernloser Aprikosenpfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:220. 1858.

Tree productive; flowers small; fruit large; flesh red; clingstone;
ripens early in September.

    =Kerr.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 22. 1897.

    _Jessie Kerr._ =2.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 314. 1889.

Kerr is a southern variety said to be larger and earlier than
Alexander. It originated in Maryland. It was added to the fruit-list of
the American Pomological Society in 1897. The fruit is of medium size
and a freestone.

    =Kerr Dwarf.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 43. 1895.

    _Kerr Cling No. 1?_ =2.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 392. 1891.

The tree is semi-dwarf in habit, with dense foliage; glands reniform;
fruit large, roundish; suture shallow; skin yellow, washed, mottled
and splashed with red, thick, tough; flesh stained slightly about the
pit, firm, juicy, mild subacid, sprightly; stone large, oval, adherent;
matures early in September.

    =Kestrel.= =1.= Bunyard _Cat. Fr. Trees_ 35. 1913-14.

Kestrel is a variety raised by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England.
Fruit large, rich crimson; flesh tender, juicy; ripens early in August.

    =Kew Seedling.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 97. 1831.

Glands globose; flowers small; fruit of second size, pale yellow and
dark red; flesh melting; of second quality; matures early in September.

    =Keyport.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 22. 1897.

    _Keyport White._ =2.= _Mich. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 411. 1871. =3.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 30. 1875. =4.= _N. J. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 42.
    1878.

Keyport originated in the garden of Joseph Beer, Keyport, New Jersey,
about 1852. In 1875 it was given a place on the fruit-list of the
American Pomological Society as Keyport White; later the name was
changed to Keyport. Tree a good grower and a heavy bearer; leaves with
reniform glands; fruit large, freestone; ripens very late.

    =Kibby Golden.= =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =15=:290. 1897.

Fruit above medium in size, distinctly sutured; light yellow,
approaching white, almost entirely overspread with light pink; flesh
decidedly tinged with red, changing to whitish toward the pit, soft,
coarse, juicy, sweet; fair in quality; ripens the middle of September.

    =Kilbourn.= =1.= _Mo. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 419. 1885. =2.= _Ill.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 159. 1889.

Because of hardiness, this peach is sometimes called Canada Iron Clad.
Fruit large; flesh adheres to the stone; ripens with Hale Early.

    =King Solomon.= =1.= Smith Bros. _Cat._ 15. 1913.

Said by Smith Brothers, Concord, Georgia, to be one of the best late,
yellow peaches; larger than Elberta. It was propagated for many years
in Georgia from seed; ripens there the last of September.

    =Kinnaman Early.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =20=:236. 1878. =2.= _W. N.
    Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 51. 1879.

This variety originated with Samuel Kinnaman of Delaware; fruit of
medium size, roundish; skin pale brownish-red on a pale greenish
ground; flesh greenish-white to the stone, juicy, sweet; very good;
adheres partially to the pit; ripens a few days earlier than Alexander.

    =Kite.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Bul._ =62=:515. 1902.

Kite is a Peento seedling which originated with Robert Kite, Waldo,
Florida, about 1885. Fruit of medium size, roundish; cavity large,
abrupt; suture wide, extending beyond the apex; skin velvety, thick,
creamy, washed with red; flesh creamy, pink at the pit, firm, tender,
juicy; quality medium, lacks character; clingstone; season the first of
June.

    =Kitrells Favorite.= =1.= _Pa. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 48. 1882.

Listed in this reference.

    =Kleine Charlestowner Ananaspfirsche.= =1.= Christ _Wörterb._
    350. 1802. =2.= Christ _Handb._ 601. 1817.

Very similar to Pineapple but smaller and more aromatic.

    =Kleiner Blutpfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:193, 194. 1858.

    _Sanguine à petit fruit._ =2.= Noisette _Man. Comp. Jard._
    =2=:478. 1860.

Smaller and more heavily pubescent than Sanguinole.

    =Klondike.= =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =56=:662. 1897. =2.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 37. 1909.

Klondike is a chance seedling found in York County, Pennsylvania about
1885. The tree on the Station grounds is only a moderate producer and
its fruit is not as good as Champion. It was put on the fruit-list
of the American Pomological Society in 1909. Tree upright-spreading,
open; leaves broad, with small, globose glands; flowers small; fruit of
medium size, roundish-oval, halves unequal, compressed; sides inclined
to draw in about the cavity; apex with a small, mamelon tip; skin thin,
tender, with short pubescence, creamy-white, splashed and blushed
with dark red; flesh stained at the pit, juicy, melting, sweet though
sprightly, high in flavor; quality good; stone nearly free, oval;
ripens the third week in September.

    =Kohler Cling.= =1.= _Kan. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 38. 1902-03.

Large, yellow; ripens with Heath Cling.

    =Knapp Castle Seedling.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 97. 1831.

Fruit very much like Noblesse, large; leaves glandless; flowers large;
skin pale green and red; flesh melting; quality good; ripens at the end
of August.

    =Knight Early.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 97. 1831.

Fruit of medium size; leaves with globose glands; flowers large; skin
pale green, blushed with dark red; flesh melting; quality good; ripens
the middle of August.

    =Knight Mammoth.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:34. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Knight Markley Admirable.= =1.= _Gard. Chron._ 1009. 1871.

Raised by G. Darby, Markley, Sussex, England; fruit oval, with a
prominent, mamelon tip at the apex; freestone.

    =Knowles Hybrid.= =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =15=:290. 1897.

As this variety grows on the Station grounds it is not very promising.
Fruit above medium in size, irregular; suture indistinct; skin rich
yellow, blushed with carmine; flesh coarse, leathery, sweet; quality
fair; clingstone; ripens at the end of September.

    =Kraus 4 & 16.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =143=:184. 1897.

Two varieties listed in this reference.

    =Krengelbacher Lieblingspfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ.
    Obstkunde_ =3=:205. 1858.

Fruit large, similar in shape to a walnut, ribbed; skin
greenish-yellow; flesh white, pleasantly subacid; ripens in September.

    =Krummel.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 210. 1906.

    _Krummel Late._ =2.= Weber & Son _Cat._ 15. 1900.

    _Krummel October._ =3.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 223. 1904.

Krummel was found by a Mr. Krummel of St. Louis, Missouri. It is said
to be one of the best of the very late, yellow freestones.

    =Kruse Kent.= =1.= Bunyard _Cat. Fr. Trees_ 35. 1913-14.

Raised from Sea Eagle by a Mr. Kruse, late of Truro, Cornwall County,
England. Flowers very dark; fruit large, white-fleshed, very late; a
great improvement over its parent.

    =La Belle.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 111. 1880.

A seedling raised by E. F. Hynes, Kansas.

    =La Chalonnaise.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 402. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =La Fleur.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 197. 1883. =2.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:218. 1899. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:50,
    51 fig. 1910.

This is a seedling of Chili which originated with G. H. La Fleur, Mill
Grove, Michigan. It is popular in some places in Michigan because of
hardiness. Tree vigorous, productive; glands reniform; flowers large;
fruit medium to large, oval to oblong, usually irregular or lopsided;
suture continuous; skin heavily pubescent, thick, tenacious, light
yellow, with a bright crimson cheek; flesh golden yellow, stringy,
moderately juicy, mild subacid; quality very good; stone free; season
between Late Crawford and Smock.

    =La France.= =1.= _Cal. Sta. Rpt._ 407. 1892-93. =2.= _Cat.
    Cong. Pom. France_ 104 fig. 1906.

M. Boussey, a nurseryman at Montreuil-sous-Bois, France, first
propagated this variety. Glands globose; fruit very large, roundish,
deeply sutured; skin thinly pubescent, clear red; flesh white, juicy,
aromatic; quality very good; freestone; ripens early in August.

    =La Grange.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 194. 1841. =2.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 480. 1845. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 78. 1862.

    _Tardive d'Oullins._ =4.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:39, 40, fig. 18.
    1866-73. _5._ Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:141, 142 fig., 143. 1879.

La Grange originated about 1840 with John Hulse, Burlington, New
Jersey. A few years later a French sort, Tardive d'Oullins, said
to have been found at Oullins, Rhône, France, made its appearance.
The two were found to be the same. In 1862, La Grange was placed
on the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society where it
remained until 1891 and was reentered in 1909. Its lateness, size and
productiveness have won it a good name among growers in New Jersey.
Leaves with reniform glands; flowers small; fruit large, oblong; skin
greenish-white; flesh pale, juicy, melting, rich, sweet; freestone;
ripens at the end of September.

    =La Magnifique.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:34. 1889.

Listed as growing in Texas.

    =La Reine.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:805. 1896.

La Reine was introduced by G. L. Taber, Glen Saint Mary, Florida, in
1889. Tree vigorous, but not recommended in Texas; fruit rather small,
oblong; skin greenish, with a red cheek; flesh red at the stone,
adherent; ripens early in August.

    =La Rieva.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:89. 1896.

Listed in this reference.

    =Lady Anne Stewart.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =6=:414. 1826.

Fruit of medium size, white, with a slight blush, very juicy, rich;
stone free, flat, hollow at one end; ripens the middle of September.

    =Lady Farham.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:34. 1889.

Listed as growing in Texas.

    =Lady Lindsey.= =1.= Munson _Cat._ 16. 1914-15.

A seedling grown by Mrs. George Lindsey, Greenville, Texas. It is a
large, yellow-fleshed clingstone, ripening between Munson Cling and
Levy, according to the catalog of T. V. Munson, Denison, Texas.

    =Lady Palmerston.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 49. 1876. =2.=
    Hogg _Fruit Man._ 451. 1884.

Raised by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, from a pit of
Pineapple nectarine. Leaves with reniform glands; flowers small; fruit
large, greenish-yellow, marked with crimson; flesh pale yellow, rich,
melting; freestone; matures late in September.

    =Lafayette I.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 230. 1832.

A large, yellow-fleshed clingstone; ripens late in August; sometimes
called Meiggs Lafayette.

    =Lafayette II.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =152=:199. 1898.

This is another of C. C. Engle's seedlings from Paw Paw, Michigan.

    =Lafayette Free.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 190. 1841.

Introduced about 1840 from Monmouth County, New Jersey. Fruit large,
round, dark crimson where exposed; flesh very juicy, stained with
crimson throughout; freestone; ripens the last of August.

    =Lakeside Cling.= =1.= _Ohio Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 29. 1888-89.

A variety from Ottawa County, Ohio.

    =Lancaster.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 391. 1891.

    _Lancaster Yellow Rareripe._ =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 85. 1854.

Raised by Dr. H. A. Muhlenberg, Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. Fruit
large, free, very juicy.

    =Lane.= =1.= _Austin Nur. Cat._ 1913.

According to the Austin Nursery Company, Austin, Texas, Lane is a
large, golden clingstone raised by a Mr. Lane, Jacksonville, Texas;
ripens with Elberta.

    =Langier.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 97. 1831.

Listed in this reference.

    =Langlicher Blutpfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:193. 1858.

Very similar to Sanguinole but the fruit is longer and ripens earlier.

    =Lantheaume.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 408. 1889. =2.= _Guide
    Prat._ 40. 1895.

Glands reniform; fruit large to very large, of a beautiful yellow,
deepening on maturity; flesh firm, sweet, juicy, aromatic; clingstone;
ripens the last of October.

    =Laporte.= =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:159, 160, fig. 78. 1866-73.

Obtained from a seed of Belle de Vitry by A. M. Laporte near Lyons,
Rhône, France. Leaves with very large, reniform glands; flowers small;
fruit large, slightly oval, tapering to the apex; suture extends beyond
the apex; skin thin, tender, creamy, washed and strongly splashed with
deep red; flesh white, stained darker nearer the pit, juicy, sugary,
melting; stone large for the size of the fruit; freestone; ripens at
the end of August.

    =Larents.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:89. 1896.

Listed in this reference.

    =Large Early.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 97. 1831. =2.= Cole
    _Am. Fr. Book_ 193. 1849. =3.= Hooper _W. Fr. Book_ 224. 1857.

This name has been incorrectly used as a synonym of Large Early York.
Tree hardy, vigorous, productive; fruit large, roundish, flattened at
the base; suture distinct; skin whitish, with a red cheek, purple in
the sun; flesh white, red at the stone, delicate, sweet, rich; quality
good; stone very small; season the last of August.

    =Large Early Mignonne.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 49. 1876.
    =2.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 451. 1884.

Raised by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, in 1865 from a pit of
Belle Beausse. Glands round; flowers large; fruit very large; skin pale
straw-yellow, blushed where exposed; flesh melting, very juicy, rich.

    =Large-Fruited Mignonne.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 100.
    1831.

A large-flowered variety with glandless, serrate leaves.

    =Large White Cling.= =1.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 17. 1820.
    =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 495. 1845. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 211. 1856.

    _New York White Cling._ =4.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =6=:410.
    1826.

    _Williams New York?_ =5.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 105. 1831.

This variety was raised about 1807 by David Williamson of New York. It
soon became very popular among the clingstones in New England and held
a place in the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society from 1856
until 1891. Tree hardy and a regular bearer; glands globose; flowers
small; fruit large, round; suture slight; skin white, with a light red
cheek; flesh tender, melting, juicy, sweet; ripens the first half of
September.

    =Larkin Early.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 115. 1880.

Raised by D. F. Larkin, Hunts Station, Tennessee. Said to be as fine as
Large Early York and earlier than Alexander.

    =Larkin Trophy.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 161. 1881.

Listed as growing in northern Texas.

    =Last of Season.= =1.= _Utah Sta. Bul._ =18=:13. 1892.

Listed in this reference.

    =Late Barnard.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:218. 1899.

Tree strong, roundish-upright, with drooping branches, fairly
productive; fruit medium to large, roundish-oval, compressed near the
suture; cavity narrow, deep; skin yellow, with a dark red cheek; flesh
red at the pit, firm, juicy, rich, sweet; quality good; stone large,
plump, free; season the middle of September.

    =Late Catherine.= =1.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 17. 1820.

Ripens in October.

    =Late Delaware.= =1.= _Pa. Dept. Ag. Rpt._ 149. 1895.

Listed in this reference.

    =Late Devonian.= =1.= _Garden_ =53=:35. 1898. =2.=
    Bunyard-Thomas _Fr. Gard._ 113. 1904. =3.= Bunyard _Cat. Fr.
    Trees_ 36. 1913-14.

Raised by Messrs. Veitch, Exeter, England, from a pit of Belle de
Vitry crossed with Royale; introduced in 1894. The tree is very hardy
and the fruit is winning a place among the good, late varieties of
England. Glands globose; flowers large, rich pink; fruit large; skin
rather woolly, greenish-yellow, with bright red marblings; flesh juicy,
pale red at the stone, melting, brisk; freestone; ripens the middle of
September.

    =Late Elberta.= =1.= _Kan. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 38. 1902-03. =2.=
    Stark Bros. _Cat._ 35. 1914.

This variety on the Station grounds seems to be identical with Elberta
in tree and fruit-characters.

    =Late Free White.= =1.= _Am. Jour. Hort._ =8=:49. 1870.

This is a large, palatable peach, ripening about October 15th.

    =Late Mignonne.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =1=:187. 1831.

    _Mignonne Tardive._ =2.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:79, 80, fig. 38.
    1866-73.

The origin of Late Mignonne is doubtful; it is thought to be an
American strain of Grosse Mignonne. Glands small, globose; flowers
large; fruit large, roundish-truncate, noticeably sutured; skin tender,
heavily pubescent, greenish-white, more or less covered with deep
purple; flesh white, stained with purple around the pit, melting,
sweet; stone small, ovoid, free; matures the first of September.

    =Late Morris White.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 54. 1876. =2.=
    _Cal. Sta. Rpt._ 393. 1895-97.

This peach differs from Morris White only in time of maturity, this
sort being later. The fruit is large and of good quality, ripening in
September.

    =Late October.= =1.= _Wash. Bd. Hort. Rpt._ 149. 1891-92.

One of the latest varieties of the season.

    =Late Purple.= =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:17, 18, Pl.
    IX. 1768. =2.= Liegel _Anweisung_ 71. 1822. =3.= Prince _Pom.
    Man._ =1=:191. 1831. =4.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:243, 244 fig.,
    245. 1879.

    _Späte Purpurfarbige Pfirsiche._ =5.= Sickler _Teutsche Obst._
    =8=:308-313, Tab. 16. 1797.

    _Grosse Pourprée._ =6.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 102. 1831.

    _Später purpurrothe Lackpfirsich._ =7.= Dochnahl _Führ.
    Obstkunde_ =3=:213. 1858.

    _Pourprée tardive à petites fleurs?_ =8.= Thomas _Guide Prat._
    50. 1876.

An old variety mentioned as early as 1714 by French writers. Tree
productive; glands usually reniform; flowers small, with an intense
rose-color; fruit of medium size, roundish, halves unequal; skin very
pubescent, whitish, deep purple where exposed; flesh stained at the
pit, fine, melting, juicy, vinous; of first quality; stone free, plump,
roundish; ripens the middle of September.

    =Late Red Magdalen.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =1=:185. 1831.

This variety has been confused with Royal George but is distinct. It
ripens much later. Flowers small; fruit of medium size, highly colored
and well-flavored; ripens the last of October.

    =Late Robinson Crusoe.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 192. 1841.

This peach was raised by Dr. Coxe, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, from
a stone brought from Crusoe's Island of Juan Fernandez. Tree very
productive; fruit large, round, white, with a pale red wash; ripens the
first of October.

    =Late Rose.= =1.= _Wright Nur. Cat._ 14. 1892.

This is a New Jersey variety of small value in the Station orchard.
Fruit of medium size, roundish-oval, often compressed, bulged along the
suture; skin greenish-white, with an unattractive blush; flesh stained
at the pit, juicy, coarse and stringy; quality good; freestone; ripens
the first week in October.

    =Late Serrate.= =1.= _Am. Jour. Hort._ =3=:344. 1868.

A late, freestone peach grown by W. C. Flagg, Alton, Illinois; ripens
about October 15th.

    =Late White.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =104=:89. 1894. =2.=
    _Ibid._ =169=:218. 1899.

A seedling from C. C. Engle, Paw Paw, Michigan. Tree fairly vigorous,
drooping; glands reniform; flowers small; fruit medium to large,
roundish-oval, slightly compressed near the suture; apex prominent;
suture distinct; color creamy-white, bright red in the sun; flesh red
at the pit, juicy, sprightly, vinous; quality good; pit free, large,
plump, oval; ripens late in September.

    =Late Yellow Alberge.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:22. 1832.
    =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 496. 1845.

    _Algiers yellow winter clingstone._ =3.= Prince _Treat. Fr.
    Trees_ 18. 1820.

    _October yellow clingstone._ =4.= _Ibid._ 17. 1820.

    _Algiers Yellow._ =5.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:16. 1832.

Late Yellow Alberge is a very late, clingstone peach highly esteemed
in southern France. At one time it was much grown in America but was
superseded by Heath Cling. Leaves with reniform glands; flowers large;
fruit of medium size, roundish-oval, distinctly sutured; skin downy;
flesh yellow to the stone, very firm, juicy, sweet; matures in October.

    =Laura.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:89. 1896. =2.= _Fla. Sta.
    Bul._ =62=:515. 1902.

A seedling of Peento. Fruit very large, nearly round; flesh white,
sweet, juicy; quality excellent; clingstone; ripens about with Peento.

    =Laura Cling.= =1.= Weber & Sons _Cat._ 19. 1906.

Laura Cling is identical with Krummel except that it is a clingstone
while Krummel is a freestone. It originated in Missouri, according to
H. J. Weber & Sons, Nursery, Missouri.

    =Laurenel.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =12=:158. 1870.

A seedling from Monroe, Ohio; said to be larger and earlier than Hale
Early.

    =Laurent de Bavay.= =1.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 75, 76. 1867.

Probably of Belgian origin. Tree vigorous, a strong grower; glands
globose; flowers large; fruit very large, roundish, halves unequal;
skin heavily pubescent, pale yellow, washed with deep red; flesh white,
red at the stone, melting, juicy, sweet; stone large, oval, free;
ripens late in September.

    =Lawrence.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 52. 1871.

Introduced by W. K. Tipton, Jerusalem, Ohio, who says it is superior to
Hale Early in flavor and a week earlier.

    =Lawton.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 127. 1875.

Raised by C. W. Lawton, Seattle, Washington, from a seed imported from
England; fruit very large and ripens early.

    =Leader.= =1.= Burbank _Cat._ 1912-13.

According to Luther Burbank, Santa Rosa, California, Leader is of the
Muir-Crawford type ripening in California in July; freestone.

    =Leatherbury Late.= =1.= _Pa. Hort. Assoc. Rpt._ 48. 1882.

Listed in this reference.

    =Leatherland Late.= =1.= _N. Mex. Sta. Bul._ =30=:243. 1899.

Listed by the New Mexico Station.

    =Lemon Cling.= =1.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 17. 1820. =2.=
    Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 188. 1846. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 78. 1862.

    _Large Yellow Pine Apple._ =4.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 224.
    1817.

    _Kennedy Carolina._ =5.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 17. 1820.

    _Kennedy Lemon Cling._ =6.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 98. 1831.

    _Pine Apple Clingstone._ =7.= Hoffy _Orch. Comp._ =1=:Pl.
    1841-42.

    _Englischer Lackpfirsich._ =8.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:215. 1858.

    _Pavie Citron._ =9.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:216. 1879.

Lemon Cling dates back to before the Revolutionary War. From all
accounts it originated in South Carolina, probably in Charleston. A
number of seminal varieties, all very similar to Lemon Cling, are
cultivated; all of these some writers combine under the name Lemon
Cling. Robert Kennedy introduced the fruit into New York about 1800
where it became known as Kennedy's Carolina or Kennedy's Lemon
Clingstone. The variety is very popular in many sections, especially
California, as a canning peach. It was placed on the fruit-list of the
American Pomological Society in 1862. Tree vigorous, highly productive,
bears regularly; leaves crenate, with reniform glands; flowers small,
deep red; fruit large, oval, resembling a lemon; apex terminating in a
large nipple; skin deep yellow, brownish-red where exposed; flesh firm,
with a deep, lemon color, red at the stone, juicy, sprightly, vinous,
with an agreeable acidity; very good when perfectly ripe; stone clings;
ripens in September.

    =Lemon Clingstone (Hoyte).= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 98.
    1831.

Leaves with globose glands; flowers small; fruit large; skin yellow and
dark red; of second quality; ripens at the end of September.

    =Leny Winter.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =23=:18. 1881.

A large, yellow peach; will keep through November if gathered before a
hard frost.

    =Leona.= =1.= _Austin Nur. Cat._ 4. 1912.

Similar to a bright-colored Elberta but earlier and more productive,
according to the catalog of the Austin Nursery Company, Austin, Texas.

    =Léonie.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:143, 144 fig. 1879.

Charles Buisson raised Léonie from seed about 1863 at Tronche, Isère,
France. Leaves glandless; flowers of medium size; fruit medium in size,
roundish-oval; suture deep; skin thin, whitish-yellow, carmine where
exposed; flesh red at the stone, melting, juicy, aromatic; of second
quality; stone small, plump, roundish-oval, free; ripens the last half
of September.

    =Lenoir.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 621. 1869.

Lenoir is of medium size, round, halves unequal; skin white, washed and
splashed with red; flesh juicy, aromatic; freestone; ripens the middle
of August.

    =Leopard.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:816. 1896.

A worthless, southern variety similar to Blood Cling.

    =Leopold I.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 195. 1841.

    _Leopold Clingstone._ =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 78. 1862.

Leopold I originated at Smithfield, Virginia. It was put on the
fruit-list of the American Pomological Society in 1862. Fruit very
large, round, yellow, juicy; ripens in August.

    =Leopold II.= =1.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =3=:370. 1862. _2._
    _Pom. France_ =6=:No. 9, Pl. 9. 1869. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._
    18. 1871.

    _Leopold Magdalene._ =4.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:199,
    200. 1858.

    _Leopold Free._ =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 32. 1869.

This peach was introduced by a M. Van Orlé, Villerne, Belgium. The
variety was brought to America and appeared on the fruit-list of the
American Pomological Society from 1869 until 1899. Tree vigorous,
productive; glands globose; flowers large; fruit large, roundish,
slightly attenuated at the base; suture distinct; skin yellowish-white,
richly colored with carmine; flesh white, stained at the pit, melting,
sweet, aromatic; quality very good; pit slightly adherent, oval; ripens
the middle of September.

    =Lepère.= =1.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 38, 39. 1867.

Tree vigorous, very productive; leaves with reniform glands; flowers
small, rose-colored; fruit large, globular; cavity deep; skin thinly
pubescent, blood-red where exposed; flesh whitish-yellow, blood-red
at the pit, firm, juicy, aromatic; quality good; pit roundish-oval,
clinging; ripens at the end of August.

    =Leroy Winter.= =1.= _Mo. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 276. 1896.

A late, yellow variety from Missouri.

    =Lewenau Lieblingspfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:207. 1858.

A seedling of Admirable, raised about 1851. Glands reniform; flowers
large, white; fruit roundish, flattened, strongly sutured; skin
greenish-yellow, heavily pubescent; flesh white, red at the stone,
sprightly; stone free, sharply pointed; matures the middle of September.

    =Lewis.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 279. 1882. =2.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 33. 1899. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:52. 1910.

    _Early Lewis._ =4.= _Kan. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 195. 1902-03.

Lewis is the only white-fleshed seedling which appeared from about
one hundred Chili pits, planted by N. W. Lewis, Allegan County,
Michigan. The variety was placed on the fruit-list of the American
Pomological Society in 1899 where it still remains. Tree vigorous,
bears early, productive, but subject to leaf-curl; glands reniform;
flowers large; fruit medium to large, roundish, slightly flattened at
the ends, a trifle irregular; suture shallow; skin smooth, thin, tough,
creamy-white, splashed and mottled with crimson; flesh white, juicy,
vinous; quality good; stone free, large; season immediately following
Hale Early.

    =Libra.= =1.= _Garden_ =64=:109. 1903. =2.= Bunyard _Cat. Fr.
    Trees_ 36. 1913-14.

A seedling raised by R. D. Blackmore and introduced by Will Taylor,
Hampton, England. The fruits are large, very juicy; ripen in July.

    =Liefmanns.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 403. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Liermann Pfirsich.= =1.= Lauche _Ergänzungsband_ 711 fig.,
    712. 1883.

Tree vigorous, productive; fruit very large, globular, surface
irregular; suture deep, dividing the fruit unevenly; skin tender,
yellowish-white, without a blush; flesh tender, juicy, sweet, aromatic;
stone roundish, flattened at the base; ripens on a west wall toward the
end of August.

    =Lilard October.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:34. 1889.

Listed as growing on the Station grounds.

    =Lillian.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 77. 1893.

Exhibited at the World's Fair in 1893 from Illinois.

    =Limon.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 98. 1831.

Listed in this reference.

    =Lina Hauser.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186. 1883.

    _Lina Lackpfirsich._ =2.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:214,
    215. 1858.

Glands reniform; flowers small, white; fruit large, roundish, halves
unequal, greenish-yellow and dark red; flesh stained at the pit,
aromatic; freestone; ripens the middle of September.

    =Lincoln.= =1.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 194. 1849.

Lincoln originated in Lincoln, Massachusetts, about 1800. Tree hardy,
productive; glands globose; fruit very large, roundish; suture
prominent; skin rich yellow, with considerable dark purplish-red; flesh
tinged at the stone, juicy, rich, sweet; freestone; ripens the middle
of September.

    =Lincoln Cling.= =1.= _Horticulturist_ =15=:491. 1860.

A spicy-flavored clingstone from a Dr. Hunter, Lincoln, North Carolina;
fruit yellow, with a prominent, mamelon tip at the apex.

    =Lindley I.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 49. 1876.

Glands reniform; flowers pale red; fruit very large; matures in
September.

    =Lindley II.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 238, 239. 1911.

Lindley II was found in a block of Elbertas by J. Van Lindley, Pomona,
North Carolina. Flesh yellow, firm, free; ripens with Hiley.

    =Linzey White.= =1.= _Mo. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 246. 1893.

Grown by S. W. Gilbert of Iowa.

    =Lipscomb.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:813. 1896.

Lipscomb is vigorous but not productive; glands reniform; fruit
small, round; color yellow, with a red cheek; flavor subacid; stone
semi-clinging; ripens the last of June in Texas.

    =Lisle.= =1.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ 1752. =2.= Prince _Pom.
    Man._ =2=:21. 1832.

Fruit roundish, of medium size; skin violet where exposed; flesh
melting, vinous, pale yellow except about the pit; clingstone; ripens
early in September.

    =Little Anne.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 167. 1871.

Little Anne, ripening ten days earlier than Hale Early, was discarded
on account of the small size of the fruit and tenderness of the tree.

    =Lizzie.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Yearbook_ 114, 115, 116, Pl. X.
    1913.

Lizzie originated with J. W. Stubenrauch, Mexia, Texas, from an Elberta
seed probably fertilized with Bell October. Tree thrifty, productive;
fruit globular to obovate, sides often unequal, medium to large; suture
shallow except at the cavity; skin tough, rich yellow, striped with
light red; flesh stained at the pit, firm, meaty, juicy, vinous; good
to very good; stone broad, obovate, large, free; ripens two weeks after
Elberta.

    =Lock Cling.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 248. 1884. =2.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:30. 1895.

    _Lock Late._ =3.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 77. 1893.

Glands reniform; flowers small; fruit yellow, late, clingstone.

    =Lockwood.= =1.= Ilgenfritz _Cat._ 24, fig. 1896.

Lockwood is one of the earliest, yellow freestones, ripening three
weeks before Early Crawford.

    =Lodge.= =1.= Harrison _Cat._ 17. 1904.

According to the catalog of J. G. Harrison, Berlin, Maryland, Lodge
originated in Kent County, Delaware. On the Station grounds the tree is
vigorous but only moderately productive; leaves fairly broad; margin
finely serrate, with small, globose glands; flowers appear early, of
medium size, pale pink, darker at the edge; fruit medium in size,
cordate, halves unequal, compressed; cavity abrupt, often with red
markings; suture shallow; apex with a mucronate tip; skin thin, tough,
covered with thick pubescence, creamy-white, with an attractive, lively
red blush; flesh white, stained about the stone, juicy, stringy,
melting, sprightly, pleasing; quality good; stone nearly free, large
for the size of the fruit, oval, flattened at the base; ripens the last
of August.

    =Lone Ark.= =1.= _N. Mex. Sta. Bul._ =30=:243. 1899.

Listed in this reference.

    =Lone Tree.= =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 420. 1898. =2.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 38. 1909.

Lone Tree is one of many seedlings that thrive about Lone Tree, Iowa.
In 1909 it was put on the fruit-list of the American Pomological
Society. Fruit of medium size, yellow, without any blush; quality good;
pit very small, free; ripens about September 10th.

    =Long Leaved.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Longhurst.= =1.= Green _Cat._ 18. 1893. =2.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._
    =169=:218. 1899. =3.= _Can. Hort._ =29=:105. 1906. =4.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 38. 1909.

Longhurst originated on the Niagara Peninsula, Canada. It was added to
the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society in 1909. Trees very
hardy, productive; glands globose; flowers large; fruit medium in size,
oval, halves unequal, very pubescent, unattractive; suture indistinct;
apex prominent; color yellow, with a red blush; flesh red at the pit,
fibrous, vinous, sprightly; pit free, oval, pointed; ripens the last of
September.

    =Longworthy.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:813. 1896.

    _Longworthy Late Rareripe._ =2.= _U. S. Pat. Off. Rpt._ 415.
    1858.

Tree vigorous but a shy bearer; glands reniform; fruit small, round,
pale white, with a red cheek; flavor pleasant subacid; clingstone;
ripens the last of July in Texas.

    =Lonoke.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:34. 1889. =2.= Munson
    _Cat._ 6. 1893.

Flowers large; fruit large, yellow; clingstone; ripens late; sure
bearer.

    =Lord Fauconberg Mignonne.= =1.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._
    261, 262. 1831.

An old English variety known as early as 1769. Leaves doubly serrate,
without glands; flowers small; fruit above medium in size, ovate,
deeply sutured, pale yellow, with wide splashes of deep, dull red;
flesh yellowish-white, red at the stone, juicy; stone free, rather
flat; ripens the middle of September.

    =Lord Palmerston.= =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 225. 1866. =2.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 621. 1869. =3.= Lauche _Ergänzungsband_
    715 fig., 716. 1883. =4.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 452. 1884.

    _Palmerston._ =5.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:222. 1899.

This variety was raised by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, from
a pit of Princess of Wales. Fruit large, roundish, inclined to oval,
with a distinct suture; color yellowish-white, with a red blush; flesh
creamy-white, red at the pit which is somewhat adherent, juicy, firm,
mild; quality good; season the last of September.

    =Lorentz.= =1.= Reid _Cat._ 33 fig. 1894. =2.= _Mich. Sta.
    Bul._ =169=:204, 219. 1899. =3.= _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta. Rpt._
    =7=:54. 1900. =4.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:350. 1903.
    =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 38. 1909.

Lorentz is supposed to have come from a seedling tree found about 1889
in the orchard of Fred Lorentz, Marshall County, West Virginia. It was
introduced about 1894 by E. W. Reid, Bridgeport, Ohio. Fruit of medium
size, roundish, compressed, with a shallow suture; color yellow,
blushed with red; flesh yellow, red at the pit, juicy, tender, mild,
free; quality good; season early October.

    =Lottie.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:89. 1896.

Grown by the Florida Experiment Station.

    =Loudon.= =1.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 60, 61. 1867.

Tree moderately vigorous, very productive; glands reniform; flowers
very large; fruit large, oblate; skin downy, marbled with deep red;
flesh whitish-yellow, stained near the pit, melting, juicy, aromatic,
sweet; stone free, oval; ripens at the end of August.

    =Louisiana.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 38. 1909.

Listed by the American Pomological Society; fruit large, round, white;
freestone.

    =Love All.= =1.= Lovett _Cat._ 39. 1889.

According to J. T. Lovett, Little Silver, New Jersey, this variety is a
large, yellow peach from California; excellent for canning.

    =Lovejoy Cling.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 191. 1860.

Recommended for planting in Mississippi.

    =Lovell.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 314. 1889. =2.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 33. 1899. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:219. 1899.

Lovell is a chance seedling raised and named by G. W. Thissell of
California in 1882. The fruit cans, ships and dries well. Tree fairly
vigorous, drooping; glands globose; flowers small; fruit of medium
size, roundish, compressed; suture distinct, extending beyond the apex;
skin bright yellow, with a faint, marbled blush; flesh yellow to the
pit, juicy, tender, vinous; pit small, roundish-oval, free; ripens the
last of September in Michigan.

    =Lovell White Madison.= =1.= _Okla. Sta. Bul._ =2=:14. 1892.

Listed in this reference.

    =Lovett.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 38. 1909.

    _Lovett White._ =2.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 314. 1889. =3.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:219. 1899.

The American Pomological Society listed this variety in its catalog
of 1909. Tree strong, roundish-upright, productive; glands reniform;
flowers small; fruit large, roundish; suture distinct; skin
creamy-white, with considerable bloom; flesh creamy-white to the pit,
juicy, tender, sprightly; pit free; ripens the last of September;
valuable for canning purposes.

    =Lowes Favorite.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 105. 1903.

A peach of the Crawford type originating in Oceana County, Michigan.

    =Lowets White.= =1.= _Guide Prat._ 42. 1895.

Fruit large, white, sweet; very late.

    =Lows Large Melting.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 98. 1831.

Allied to Royal George but not as good; leaves glandless; flowers
small; fruit large; color pale yellowish-green, with a red cheek; flesh
melting; quality fair; ripens early in September.

    =Lucia.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 391. 1891.

A large, globular fruit, yellow, shaded with rich purplish-red; flesh
red at the stone, mild subacid; best of quality; clingstone; season the
end of September.

    =Luizet Dwarf.= =1.= _Am. Jour. Hort._ =6=:249. 1869.

In 1861, Gabriel Luizet, Ecully, Rhône, France, grew this dwarf from
a seed of Grosse Mignonne. Tree dwarf, vigorous, productive; leaves
large, deeply serrate, glandless; fruit small, oval, surface uneven,
halves unequal; skin nearly smooth, bright red where exposed; flesh
yellowish-white, red at the stone, juicy, sprightly; stone free, deeply
furrowed.

    =Lulu I.= =1.= _Cult. & Count. Gent._ =45=:536. 1880.

A very early seedling from Batavia, New York; fruit globular;
clingstone; ripens before Amsden.

    =Lulu II.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:806. 1896.

Lulu II belongs to the so-called Spanish group; tree hardy, productive;
glands numerous, globose; fruit small, greenish-yellow; flavor rather
acid; quality poor.

    =Luton.= =1.= _Tex. Nur. Cat._ 12. 1909.

The Texas Nursery Company, Sherman, Texas, states that this variety was
grown from seed at Ector, Texas, by J. T. Luton; fruit large, oblong;
clingstone; ripening a week before Elberta.

    =Luttichau.= =1.= _Glen St. Mary Nur. Cat._ 26. 1913.

It is reported in the Glen Saint Mary Nursery Catalog, Glen Saint Mary,
Florida, that Baron H. Von Luttichau, Earleton, Florida, originated
this variety. Fruit large, oval; skin waxy, greenish-white, washed or
blushed with red, thin, tough; flesh tinged at the pit, firm, juicy,
sweet; pit free; season the last of May.

    =Lydon Cling.= =1.= Harrison _Cat._ 18. 1910.

Lydon Cling is a large, firm, yellow peach ripening about the middle of
August, according to J. G. Harrison, Berlin, Maryland.

    =Lynn Lemon Cling.= =1.= J. R. Johnson _Cat._ 6. 1894.

Fruit large, with a red cheek; of excellent quality; ripens the last
of September, as described in the catalog of J. R. Johnson, Coshocton,
Ohio.

    =Lyon.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 622. 1869.

A seedling originating with George Husman, Hermann, Missouri. Fruit
large, round, somewhat irregular; suture a red streak; skin smooth,
yellowish-white, marbled with deep red; flesh veined with red, deep at
the stone, juicy, sweet, vinous; freestone; ripens early in August.

    =Lyon Cling.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 317. 1889.

    _Lyon Mammoth Cling._ =2.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:98. 1892.

From W. M. Williams, Fresno, California; flesh white to the stone; late.

    =McAllister.= =1.= _Okla. Sta. Bul._ =2=:14, 1892. =2.= _Pa.
    Sta. Bul._ =37=:10. 1896.

Listed as succeeding on either high or low land.

    =M'Clish.= =1.= _Pacific Nur. Cat._ 10. 1906.

According to the Pacific Nursery Company, Tangent, Oregon, M'Clish is
of the Orange Cling type ripening just after Early Crawford but is
larger, sweeter and richer; used by the California canneries.

    =McCollister.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =31=:58. 1887. =2.= _U.
    S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 43. 1895.

McCollister on the Station grounds is neither hardy nor productive
but is relatively free from leaf-curl. Trees large, with a slight
drooping tendency; leaves long, large, with small, globose glands;
flowers appear in mid-season; fruit large, irregular in outline,
roundish-cordate, oblique, halves decidedly unequal; cavity deep and
wide; suture often extends two-thirds around the fruit; apex with a
small, mamelon tip; skin thick, tough, blushed with dull red on a deep
lemon-yellow ground, attractive; flesh stained with red at the stone,
firm, coarse, noticeably stringy, moderately sweet but not rich; stone
free, ovate, bulged near the apex; ripens the first of September.

    =McConnell Seedling.= =1.= _Can. Hort._ =18=:417. 1895.

A very hardy seedling grown in Essex County, Canada.

    =McCormick.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 189. 1880.

This peach was found by W. H. McCormick, Clyde, Michigan. Tree similar
to Late Crawford; glands reniform; fruit nearly round; flesh deep
yellow to the stone which is small and free; ripens just ahead of Late
Crawford.

    =McCowan Cling.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 314. 1889.

Dr. McCowan, Ukiah, California, raised this variety. It is free from
leaf-curl; must be carefully thinned for size; flesh yellow, stained at
the pit; good for canning.

    =McCoy Free.= =1.= _Winfield Nur. Cat._ 15. 1915.

The Winfield Nursery Company, Winfield, Kansas, states that this
variety is a large, yellow freestone, ripening two weeks after Elberta.

    =McCoy Seedling.= =1.= J. R. Johnson _Cat._ 6. 1894.

Originated with Henry McCoy, Coshocton County, Ohio; very similar to
Wonderful, according to J. R. Johnson, Coshocton, Ohio.

    =McDevitt.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 318. 1889. =2.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 34. 1899.

McDevitt is a yellow cling which originated with Neal McDevitt, Placer
County, California. In 1899 it was added to the fruit-list of the
American Pomological Society.

    =McIntosh.= =1.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:238. 1898. =2.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 38. 1909.

McIntosh is a peach from Georgia which was placed on the fruit-list
of the American Pomological Society in 1909. At this Station, it is
a light bearer and susceptible to leaf-curl. Tree with a drooping
tendency; glands usually globose; flowers appear in mid-season; fruit
medium in size, roundish-oval, tapers toward the apex, halves equal;
cavity deep, wide, abrupt; suture shallow; apex with a mucronate tip;
skin thin, tough, pale creamy-yellow, blushed with light red becoming
deeper, attractive; flesh white, stained near the pit, juicy, stringy,
melting, vinous, aromatic; stone with a clinging tendency, large, oval;
ripens the last of August.

    =McIntyre Late Free.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 315. 1889.

Approved by the growers in several counties in California; fruit large,
yellow; of California origin.

    =McKay Late.= =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =62=:835. 1903.

This is a very late, yellow freestone, originating about 1890 with the
late W. L. McKay, Geneva, New York. Tree upright-spreading to slightly
drooping, hardy; glands reniform; flowers appear in mid-season; fruit
large, oval, angular; halves decidedly unequal; sides drawn in about
the cavity, which is shallow and narrow; apex with a mucronate tip;
skin heavily pubescent, thick, tough, pale yellow, usually with blush
near the cavity but often without; flesh stained at the pit, juicy,
coarse, stringy, sprightly; stone large, oval, plump, acutely pointed
at the apex; ripens in October.

    =McKevitt. 1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 315. 1889. =2.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:220. 1899. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 38. 1909.

This white clingstone is widely distributed in California and in 1909
was added to the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society.
It originated on the farm of A. McKevitt, Vaca Valley, California.
Tree upright, roundish; glands globose; flowers small; fruit large,
roundish-oval; apex prominent; color creamy-white, marbled with bright
red; flesh moderately juicy, faintly tinged with red at the pit, firm,
sweet, highly flavored; stone oval, pointed; ripens in mid-season.

    =McKinley. 1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 420. 1898.

A white peach from a Mr. Calkins, Iowa City, Iowa.

    =McKinnel. 1.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._ =156=:134. 1911.

An upright, rank-growing tree with heavy foliage, productive but
susceptible to rot; fruit roundish, medium to large; apex sharply
pointed; flesh yellowish-white, fine, juicy; quality very good; ripens
the last of May.

    =McKinney. 1.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._ =117=:309. 1901.

A promising new variety; tree a strong grower, fairly productive; fruit
medium to large; flesh white, firm, juicy, sweet; clingstone; ripens
the last of June.

    =McLide Seedling. 1.= _Ont. Fr. Gr. Assoc. Rpt._ App. 37. 1901.

Exhibited at the Pan American Exposition.

    =McNair Late. 1.= _Mo. State Fr. Sta. Bul._ =3=:38. 1902.

A good variety for commercial or home use in Missouri.

    =McNeil. 1.= _Utah Sta. Bul._ =18=:13. 1892.

Listed in this reference.

    =McNeil Early. 1.= King Bros. _Cat._ 14. 1915.

This sort was found by Frank McNeil, Dansville, New York, and was
introduced by King Brothers of that place in 1913. Fruit white-fleshed;
a perfect freestone; one of the first to ripen.

    =Macon. 1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 450. 1879.

A variety with fruit of fair quality, valued in Lenawee County,
Michigan.

    =McShaw. 1.= Bailey _Ann. Hort._ 185. 1892.

A large, clingstone peach ripening in October.

    =Madame d'Andrimont. 1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:77, 78, fig. 37.
    1866-73.

Probably originated about Liége, Belgium. Leaves glandless; flowers
large; fruit large, spherical, depressed at the ends; suture shallow;
skin downy, pale yellow, bright red in the sun; flesh white, stained
about the pit, melting, juicy, aromatic; stone free, large; ripens the
middle of August.

    =Madame Bernède. 1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 403. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Madame Daurel. 1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 403. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Madame Gaujard. 1.= Koch _Deut. Obst._ 540. 1876. =2.= Lauche
    _Deut. Pom._ =VI=:No. 23, Pl. 1882.

Originated in 1858 with N. Gaujard, Ghent, Belgium. Flowers small;
fruit large, roundish; suture more or less distinct; skin very
pubescent, thin, clear yellow, with a purplish-red blush; flesh white,
stained at the pit, juicy, sweet; stone free, broadly oval; ripens in
September.

    =Madame Malfilâtre.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 403. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Madame Pynaert.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =29=:46. 1887.

    _Madame Edouard Pynaert._ =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 403. 1889.

A large, dark red peach of superior quality, raised in Belgium about
1881.

    =Madeira.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 285. 1854.

    _Hill Madeira._ =2.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 224. 1817.

    _Madeira Freestone._ =3.= _Horticulturist_ =4=:243. 1849-50.

Madeira was raised by Henry Hill, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, from a
pit brought from Madeira. Fruit large, whitish, with a pale red cheek;
flesh highly flavored, melting, juicy; freestone; ripens in September.

    =Madeleine Blanche d'Anoot.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 52. 1876.

A variety bearing globose glands.

    =Madeleine Blanche de Doué.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom_ 403. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Madeleine Blanche de Loisel.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 44.
    1876.

Often included incorrectly with the White Madeleine.

    =Madeleine Hariot.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 40. 1876.

Tree vigorous, productive; leaves glandless; fruit large, ovoid,
somewhat pointed at the base; greenish-yellow, striped and marbled with
deep carmine; flesh white to the pit, juicy, vinous; matures at the end
of August.

    =Madeleine Hâtive a Moyennes Fleurs.= =1.= Mas _Le Verger_
    =7=:173, 174, fig. 85. 1866-73.

This sort is thought by Leroy to be Royal Charlotte. Probably the only
difference is in its ripening, this variety ripening early in August.

    =Madeleine à Mamelon.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 98. 1831.

Listed in this reference.

    =Madeleine Paysanne.= =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:99, 100, fig.
    48. 1866-73.

This is an old French sort often confused with Bollweiler Magdalene
of some authors. Tree vigorous, productive; leaves glandless; flowers
large; fruit large, spherical, depressed at the ends, distinctly
sutured; cavity large; skin finely pubescent, pale yellow, with a deep
purple blush; flesh whitish-yellow, stained about the pit, melting,
aromatic, sweet; pit small for the size of fruit, free.

    =Madeleine Striée.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 404. 1889. =2.=
    _Guide Prat._ 40. 1895.

Tree very productive; leaves glandless; fruit large, roundish; skin
thin, whitish-yellow, striped with red in the sun; flesh fine, melting,
sweet, aromatic; ripens the last of August.

    =Madeleine Superbe de Choisy.= =1.= _Le Bon Jard._ 327. 1882.

This variety originated with a M. Gravier of Choisy-le-Roi, France.
Fruit very large, roundish, blushed with deep red where exposed; flesh
white, purple at the stone, melting, sweet, aromatic; stone small,
free; matures the last of September.

    =Madison County Mammoth.= =1.= _Mo. State Fr. Sta. Rpt._ 11.
    1901.

This is a variety from Missouri which ripens too late in New York.
The tree in the Station orchard is upright, moderately vigorous, very
productive; glands reniform; fruit of the Chili type but more irregular
and broader; cavity small; suture extends beyond the apex; skin heavily
pubescent, whitish, with considerable mottling; flesh stained at the
pit, moderately juicy, tough, leathery; flavor and quality fair; stone
slightly elliptical, decidedly clinging; ripens the last of October.

    =Magdala.= =1.= _Am. Jour. Hort._ =6=:250. 1869. =2.= Hogg
    _Fruit Man._ 452. 1884.

Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, raised Magdala in 1865 from
a seed of Orange nectarine. Leaves with reniform glands; flowers
large; fruit of medium size, inclining to oval; skin nearly smooth,
creamy-white, marbled with crimson; flesh tender, melting, rich;
freestone; ripens the last of August.

    =Magdalen Clingstone.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =1=:198. 1831.

    _Pavie Madeleine._ =2.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:13. 1768.

This sort is a variation of White Magdalen. Some writers list it as
identical with Smith Newington. Leaves devoid of glands; flowers large;
fruit of medium size, broadly globular; suture shallow, deepening
toward the base; skin pale yellowish-white, marbled and streaked where
exposed; flesh firm, pale yellowish-white to the stone, juicy, sugary;
stone clings, shortly ovate, thick; ripens early in September.

    =Maggie I.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 22. 1897. =2.= _Ibid._
    38. 1909.

    _Maggie Burt._ =3.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:34. 1889.

Maggie I. or Maggie Burt as it was first called, was put on the
fruit-list of the American Pomological Society in 1897. It is a large,
oval, white-fleshed clingstone from Texas.

    =Maggie II.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:86. 1896. =2.= _Fla.
    Sta. Bul._ =62=:516. 1902.

Peter C. Minnich, Waldo, Florida, originated this variety which
resembles and ripens with Bidwell Early. Fruit medium to large,
roundish-oblong; cavity open, abrupt, suture but one-quarter around
the fruit; apex rounded; skin velvety, thick, light yellow; washed
with red; flesh firm, white, juicy; quality very good; stone partly
clinging, large, oval.

    =Magistrate.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 293. 1854.

A fruit of American origin; glands reniform; fruit large; skin
greenish-white, with a red cheek; flesh juicy but not high in quality;
freestone; ripens in September.

    =Magnifique de Daval.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186. 1883.

Listed but not described.

    =Magnum Bonum.= =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =14=:119. 1863.

Listed as a good peach for Missouri.

    =Maid of Malines.= =1.= _Gard. Chron._ 204. 1848.

    _Pucelle de Malines._ =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 30. 1875. =3.=
    Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:249 fig., 250. 1879.

    _Jungfern-Magdalene._ =4.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:199.
    1858.

    _Jungfrau von Mecheln._ =5.= Gaucher _Pom. Prak. Obst._ No. 87,
    Tab. 19. 1894.

This variety from Belgium held a place on the fruit-list of the
American Pomological Society from 1875 until 1897. Tree vigorous,
productive; glands lacking; flowers large; fruit large, roundish,
depressed; suture well marked; skin very downy, clear yellow, highly
colored where exposed; flesh yellowish-white, stained at the stone,
melting, juicy, sugary; freestone; ripens at the end of August.

    =Malden.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 286. 1854.

    _Early Malden._ =2.= _Mag. Hort._ =14=:537. 1848.

Leaves glandless; flowers small; fruit medium in size, roundish,
compressed, one side enlarged; suture distinct; skin white, with a red
cheek; juicy, sprightly; freestone; matures the last of August.

    =Malta.= =1.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ 1752. =2.= _Pom. Mag._
    =1=:No. 15, Pl. 1828. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 78. 1862. =4.=
    Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:157 fig., 158. 1879.

Malta is supposed to have originated in Malta or in Italy but the
Italians did not mention it until it had been known in France for some
time, Merlet having described it in 1667. It was early introduced into
America and held a place on the fruit-list of the American Pomological
Society from 1862 until 1891. Leaves doubly serrate, without glands;
flowers large, pale; fruit of medium size, depressed at the apex;
suture broad and shallow; skin dull green, broadly marbled with dull
purplish-red; flesh greenish-yellow, stained with red near the pit,
juicy, rich, vinous; stone free, oval, pointed; ripens at the end of
August.

    =Malte de Gouin.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 41, 221. 1876. =2.=
    Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:129, 130, fig. 1. 1883.

The fruit is larger and the quality better than that of Malta. Tree
productive; leaves glandless; fruit spherical, striped and marbled with
reddish-purple; flesh white to the stone, melting, juicy, aromatic;
stone small for the size of the fruit, free; ripens the first of
September.

    =Malte de Lisieux.= =1.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 82. 1867.

The fruits of this variety differ from Malta in their higher color,
larger size and heavier pubescence.

    =Malte Saint Julien.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 50. 1876.

A glandless variety listed by Thomas.

    =Mammoth.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =6=:410, 411. 1826.

This old peach was found in New York City a century ago by M. Brevoort.
The stone, which is large for the size of the fruit, is remarkable for
always having two kernels. The variety comes true from seed. Fruit
large, greenish-yellow; stone free; ripens at the end of September.

    =Mammoth Cling.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 184. 1835.

Fruit large, of a pale color, red where exposed; very juicy and fine.

    =Mammoth Freestone.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 28. 1873.

A large, very late variety listed in the fruit-catalog of the American
Pomological Society from 1873 until 1897.

    =Mammoth Golden.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 77. 1893.

Listed as once grown in Illinois.

    =Mammoth Heath.= =1.= Stark Bros. _Cat._ 52. 1899.

According to the catalog of Stark Brothers, Louisiana, Missouri,
Mammoth Heath is supposed to be a strain of Heath Cling from Missouri.
On the Station grounds the trees are unproductive and susceptible
to leaf-curl; glands reniform; fruit above medium in size, halves
unequal; cavity deep and wide; apex with a small, mamelon tip; suture
often extends beyond the apex; skin thin, tender, unusually woolly,
creamy-white, occasionally with a slight blush; flesh meaty, juicy,
pleasing; stone oval, flattened at the base; ripens the second week in
October.

    =Mammoth Melocoton.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 54. 1876.

A large fruit of first quality, ripening in September.

    =Man.= =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 582. 1629.

"The Man peach is of two sorts, the one longer than the other, both of
them are good Peaches but the shorter is the better relished."

    =Mandelartige Magdalene.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:198. 1858.

The leaves of this variety are glandless; flowers usually large; fruit
of medium size, elongated, almond-like; skin yellowish-green; flesh
white, stained at the pit, pleasantly subacid; stone free; ripens the
middle of September.

    =Mandls Magdalene.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:199.
    1858.

    _Lorenz Mandl._ =2.= Mathieu _Non. Pom._ 403. 1889.

A seedling from Liegel, raised about 1851. Leaves glandless; flowers
usually large, white; fruit large, roundish-oblate, halves unequal,
deeply sutured; skin greenish-white, with a reddish-brown blush;
freestone; ripens the middle of August.

    =Manning.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =13=:441. 1847.

J. F. Allen grew and named this variety after Robert Manning of Salem,
Massachusetts.

    =Marcella.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 25. 1894.

Marcella originated with E. T. Daniels, Kiowa, Kansas. On the Station
grounds the trees are unproductive and susceptible to leaf-curl. Tree
vigorous, upright-spreading or slightly drooping; glands reniform;
flowers appear late; fruit large, roundish to oval, halves decidedly
unequal; cavity shallow, sides slightly drawn in; apex roundish, with a
mucronate tip; skin covered with long, thick pubescence, thin, tough,
golden-yellow, with a few splashes, if any, of dark red; flesh faintly
red at the pit, stringy, slightly subacid; fair in quality; stone
large, oval or obovate; matures the first of October.

    =Marguerite.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 43, 221. 1876.

    _Saint Marguerite._ =2.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:41, 42, fig. 19.
    1866-73.

Originated at Liége, Belgium. Tree vigorous; leaves devoid of glands;
flowers large; fruit medium to above, roundish-ovoid, small, with a
mamelon tip at the apex; skin thin, greenish-yellow, with a dark red
blush; flesh white to the stone, juicy, sweet, aromatic; stone large,
ovoid, free; matures toward the end of July.

    =Marie de la Rochejaquelein.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 50.
    1876. =2.= Mas. _Pom. Gen._ =12=:177, 178. 1883.

Resembles Orchard Queen; leaves with reniform glands; flowers small.

    =Marie Talabot.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 404. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Marionville Cling.= =1.= Stark Bros. _Cat._ 38. 1913.

A productive, white clingstone from Marionville, Missouri, according to
Stark Brothers, Louisiana, Missouri.

    =Mark Chili.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:55 fig. 1910.

Mark Chili is a Chili seedling raised by W. D. Markham, Hart, Michigan.
The fruit is similar to that of its parent but is larger and later.
Tree vigorous, free from diseases; flowers large; fruit large, oblong,
decidedly ribbed; suture continuous, deepening toward the apex; skin
heavily pubescent, thick, tough, light yellow, with a rich, dark cheek
of solid red; flesh deep yellow, red at the pit, melting, juicy, brisk
subacid; stone oval, free; very good in quality.

    =Markham.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:53, 54 fig. 1910.

W. D. Markham, Hart, Michigan, raised this Chili seedling about 1880.
It is very similar to Early Crawford which it follows in ripening.
In the Station orchard the trees are vigorous, spreading, not very
productive; leaves broad, with very small, globose glands; flowers
appear in mid-season; fruit of medium size, roundish, halves decidedly
unequal on some specimens; cavity deep, with radiating streaks of
red; suture but a line until near the apex; skin heavily pubescent,
tenacious, golden yellow, with a blush varying in size and shade; flesh
tinged with red at the pit, tender, stringy, sweet, rich in flavor;
quality good; stone large, broadly oval, flattened near the base, apex
ending in a long point.

    =Marks Cling.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:34. 1889.

Listed as growing at the Texas Experiment Station.

    =Marlborough.= =1.= Brookshaw _Hort. Reposit._ =1=:27, Pl. 14.
    1823.

Marlborough was found in the garden of the late Duke of Marlborough
near Brentford, England. Leaves long, narrow, not affected by mildew;
blossoms large; fruit roundish; skin thin, white, with a brilliant red
blush; flesh stained at the pit, with a pineapple flavor; ripens about
August 10th.

    =Marquis of Downshire.= =1.= _Gard. Chron._ 1506. 1870. =2.=
    Hogg _Fruit Man._ 453. 1884.

    _Royal Ascot._ =3.= _Garden_ =52=:307. 1898.

This peach was raised at East Hempsted Park, Berkshire, England, and
was distributed by the Royal Ascot Nurseries. Glands globose; flowers
large; fruit medium in size, slightly oblate, uneven in outline; suture
distinct; skin greenish-yellow, with a light red cheek, mottled with
darker red where exposed; flesh stained at the pit, tender, juicy,
melting, sweet; freestone; ripens late.

    =Marquise de Brissac.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 53. 1876. =2.=
    Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:159 fig., 160. 1879.

This variety was found in the vicinity of Angers, France, and named
after the Marquise de Brissac. Glands small, reniform; flowers of
medium size; fruit large, oval-roundish, with a noticeable, mamelon tip
at the apex; distinctly sutured; skin thick, heavily pubescent, pale
yellow, with a few splashes of carmine; flesh greenish-white, stained
at the stone, juicy, melting, very sweet, vinous; very good; stone
free, large; matures early in October.

    =Marshall.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:30. 1895. =2.= _Ibid._
    =169=:219. 1899.

    _Marshall Late._ =3.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 451. 1896.

Marshall comes from and is known only in Ohio. Tree fairly vigorous,
roundish-upright; glands reniform; flowers small or medium; fruit
medium to large, roundish, slightly oblong; suture distinct,
two-thirds around the fruit; skin pale yellow, mottled with red; flesh
deep red at the pit, moderately juicy, firm, with a slight acid taste;
quality good; stone free; matures the last of September.

    =Martha Fern Cling.= =1.= Stark Bros. _Cat._ 38. 1913.

A white-fleshed clingstone from Pike County, Missouri, according to
Stark Brothers, Louisiana, Missouri.

    =Martindale.= =1.= _Kan. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 52. 1901.

Raised by a Mr. Martindale of Kansas. Tree very hardy; fruit white,
very sweet, rich and juicy; freestone; ripens early in August.

    =Mary.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 33. 1899. =2.= Budd-Hansen
    _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:351 1903.

    _Mary Choice._ =3.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 44, 217. 1876.

Mary is a good dessert and market sort grown in New Jersey and
Maryland. It was placed on the fruit-list of the American Pomological
Society in 1899. Fruit large, oblong; flesh yellow, firm, very good;
freestone; season late.

    =Mary Choice (Kerr).= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:99. 1892.

Listed in this reference.

    =Marydel.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:99. 1892.

Listed in this reference.

    =Maryland Early.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =18=:273. 1876.

A seedling from Frederick City, Maryland. One of the earliest to ripen
in that locality.

    =Masicot.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 32. 1889.

    _Mascotte._ =2.= _Fla. Sta. Bul._ =62=:516. 1902.

Griffing Brothers raised Masicot from a seed of Waldo. It first fruited
in 1894 and was put on the fruit-list of the American Pomological
Society in 1889. Fruit two and one-half inches high, nearly round;
color creamy-yellow, washed or flecked with carmine, becoming deeper;
flesh creamy-white, stained at the stone, juicy, subacid; freestone;
ripens a few days later than Waldo.

    =Mathews.= =1.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:351. 1903.
    =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 38. 1909.

    _Mathews Beauty._ =3.= _Rural N. Y._ =57=:610. 1898.

    _Matthews Beauty._ =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 51. 1897. =5.= _W.
    N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 13. 1907.

    _Matthews._ =6.= _Rural N. Y._ =59=:706. 1900.

Mathews is supposed to be a cross between Elberta and Smock which
originated with J. C. Mathews, Cuthbert, Georgia. Fruit large,
roundish; color golden yellow, with streaks of red and a crimson cheek;
flesh yellow, firm, juicy, mild, free; quality good; season early in
August.

    =Maule Early.= =1.= Black _Cat._ 16. 1907. =2.= _Ill. Hort.
    Soc. Rpt._ 203. 1911. =3.= Black _Cat._ 5. 1913.

According to the statement of Joseph H. Black, Son and Company,
Hightstown, New Jersey, this variety is a seedling of Mamie Ross. It
was introduced in the fall of 1906 by this company. Tree vigorous,
productive; fruit medium in size, roundish-oval, with a shallow suture;
color creamy-white, mottled and striped with considerable bright red;
flesh white, firm, juicy, sweet, semi-adherent; quality good; season
early.

    =Maurice Desportes.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:160 fig., 161.
    1879.

This peach was raised about 1871 by Baptiste Desportes from a seed
of Grosse Mignonne and named after his son, Maurice. Tree vigorous,
productive; glands small, globular; flowers of medium size; fruit
medium in size, globular, compressed at both ends; suture, wide,
shallow; skin tender, covered with short hairs, washed with red on
a pale yellow ground; flesh white, faintly red at the pit, melting,
very juicy, acidulated, aromatic; very good; stone small, plump, free;
ripens the middle of August.

    =May Choice.= =1.= _Batavia Nur. Cat._ 27. 1905.

A very desirable peach ripening immediately after Early Crawford which
it resembles but excels in quality, according to the Batavia Nurseries,
Batavia, New York.

    =May Peach.= =1.= _Cultivator_ 3rd Ser. =4=:146. 1856.

A very early, white-fleshed peach which may be Kleiner Weisser
Frühpfirsich.

    =Mayflower.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 38. 1909. =2.= _Ala.
    Sta. Bul._ =156=:134. 1911. =3.= _N. J. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 100.
    1911. =4.= _Rev. Hort._ 66, 67. 1911.

Tree productive; fruit of medium size, oval, with a pointed apex; color
greenish-white, with a dark red blush; flesh greenish-white, juicy,
tender, subacid, adherent; quality fair; season very early.

    =Melocotone.= =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 580. 1629.

    _Malacotune._ =2.= Langley _Pomona_ 107, Pl. 33 fig. 4. 1729.

Fruit yellowish-green, with a deep red blush; flesh firm, clinging,
with a pleasant flavor; ripens early in September.

    =Melting.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 293. 1854.

An unproductive variety of American origin; glands globose; fruit
large; flesh white, stained with red at the stone; freestone; ripens in
September.

    =Mena.= =1.= _Mo. State Fr. Sta. Rpt._ 13. 1905-06.

Mena is a semi-free peach, with yellow flesh, ripening the middle of
August.

    =Mendenhall.= =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 426. 1898.

This is a white-fleshed seedling, bearing regularly near Des Moines,
Iowa.

    =Merlin.= =1.= Rivers _Cat._ 29. 1909-10.

    _Emérillon._ =2.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 55, 218. 1876.

Merlin is a large, luscious, pale peach from a pit of Frühe Mignonne;
flavor rich; ripens early in August.

    =Merriam.= =1.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 197. 1849.

E. Merriam, Roxbury, Massachusetts, first grew this variety; glands
globose; fruit large, short-oval, light yellow, with a bright red
cheek; flesh tinged at the stone, melting, very sweet, juicy; ripens
October 1st.

    =Merriman.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:56, 57. 1910.

Found on the Merriman farm near Bangor, Michigan. A yellow freestone
ripening just after Smock.

    =Merveille de New-York.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Merveille d'Octobre.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 50. 1876.

A good, late peach of unknown origin; glands globose; flowers small.

    =Metelka.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 50. 1876.

A variety from Hungary; glands reniform; flowers medium in size.

    =Meyer.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:56 fig. 1910.

A variety grown from seed by H. F. W. Meyer, Mears, Michigan. Tree
vigorous, hardy, reasonably free from diseases; fruit ripens with Gold
Drop but larger; flesh yellow, free.

    =Meyers Rareripe.= =1.= _Am. Gard._ =11=:715. 1890.

This variety originated in Alameda, California.

    =Michigan I.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 187. 1880.

C. C. Engle, Paw Paw, Michigan, introduced this variety about 1879 as a
seedling of Late Crawford. Fruit yellow, juicy, vinous, ripening just
before Late Crawford.

    =Michigan II.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:57. 1910.

Raised many years ago by B. Hathaway, Little Prairie Ronde, Michigan;
fruit large, yellow-fleshed; freestone.

    =Michigan Chili.= =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =74=:373. 1894.

Listed as grown near Newark, New York.

    =Michigan Nos. 1, 2 and 3.= =1.= _Ont. Sta. Rpt._ =1=:19. 1894.

Listed in this reference.

    =Michelin.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 404. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Mid September.= =1.= _Mo. State Fr. Sta. Rpt._ 14. 1905-06.

This is a lemon-yellow freestone which ripens early in September.

    =Middleton Imperial.= =1.= _Ohio Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 37. 1864.

This variety is said to have come from New Jersey; resembles
Susquehanna.

    =Mid-Season Favorite.= =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =12=:613. 1893.

Tree upright-spreading, vigorous; glands reniform; fruit of medium
size, irregular in shape; suture distinct; skin pale, light yellow,
with a moderate amount of bright red; flesh white, with red markings
near the pit, juicy, tender, not firm, sweet; quality good; stone
small, broad, thick, free; ripens the last of August.

    =Mifflin Pennsylvania.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 227. 1832.

This name is given to a variety from Colonel Carr of Bartram's Botanic
Garden; highly spoken of by the Philadelphia Horticultural Society.

    =Mignonne= (=American=). =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 99. 1831.

Leaves with reniform glands; flowers small; fruit large; skin pale
yellowish-red; flesh melting; of second quality; ripens at the end of
September.

    =Mignonne Bosselée.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 50, 221. 1876.

A variety with globose glands, listed in this reference.

    =Mignonne Dubarle.= =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 225. 1866. =2.=
    Thomas _Guide Prat._ 50, 221. 1876.

This is a very early form of Grosse Mignonne which ripens about eight
days earlier than Early Grosse Mignonne. Glands round; flowers large;
fruit of medium size, roundish, inclining to oval, distinctly sutured;
apex mamelon; skin nearly entirely covered with bright red; flesh
tender, melting, very juicy.

    =Mignonne Frizee.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:10. 1832.

    _Pêcher à fleurs frisée._ =2.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=:No.
    13, Pl. 1846.

    _Krauser Lieblingspfirsich._ =3.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:204. 1858.

The principal traits distinguishing this variety are found in its
flowers, which are curled and frizzled; the leaves have globose glands;
fruit ripens at the end of August.

    =Mignonne Purple.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 100. 1831.

Listed in this reference.

    =Mignonne de Saint Loup.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 404. 1889.

Mentioned in this reference.

    =Mikado.= =1.= Capps Bros. _Cat._ 2. 1908.

Mikado, a gold-medal peach at the St. Louis Exposition, was introduced
by Capps Brothers, Mt. Pulaski, Illinois. On the Station grounds it
is a light producer and is susceptible to mildew and leaf-curl. Tree
above medium in size, dense-topped; leaves large, with reniform glands;
flowers appear in mid-season; fruit above medium in size, roundish,
slightly cordate, angular, halves decidedly unequal; cavity deep, wide;
apex with a recurved, mamelon tip; skin thick, tough, covered with
short pubescence, with splashes of dull red mingled with a lighter
blush on a light yellow ground; flesh stained at the stone, juicy,
stringy, moderately coarse, sprightly; quality good; stone large,
ovate, broad, plump, with a clinging tendency; ripens the middle of
October.

    =Miller.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 38. 1909.

    _Miller Cling._ =2.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:351. 1903.

The American Pomological Society lists this variety in its
fruit-catalog for 1909. Fruit large, yellow, firm.

    =Miller Cling.= =1.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:238. 1898.

An early, white-fleshed cling of much promise, listed in this reference.

    =Millhiser.= =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =12=:613. 1893. =2.= Hood
    _Cat._ 34. 1905.

This variety originated with M. Millhiser, Richmond, Virginia. As it
grows in the Station orchards it is of doubtful value, being only
a fair yielder and somewhat susceptible to leaf-curl. Tree large,
vigorous, the lower branches slightly drooping; leaves fairly broad,
with globose glands; flowers appear in mid-season; fruit of medium
size, roundish-oval, halves unequal; cavity deep, abrupt; suture
deepens at the apex; skin tough, covered with short, coarse pubescence,
creamy-white, with a slight blush; flesh white to the stone, juicy,
moderately coarse, tender, stringy, sweet and aromatic; of fair
quality; stone large, broadly oval, plump, nearly free; ripens the last
of September.

    =Millionaire.= =1.= E. D. Smith _Cat._ 30. 1898.

E. D. Smith, Winona, Ontario, Canada, reports that this variety is
a Canadian seedling found near St. Catharines. Fruit large, yellow;
freestone; ripens a week later than Early Crawford.

    =Miner.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:816. 1896.

Tree fairly vigorous; glands reniform; fruit of medium size, oval, with
a large apex, yellow; flesh subacid, pleasant; ripens early in July.

    =Minerva.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =143=:185. 1897.

Listed among the fruits grown in Michigan.

    =Minion.= =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 101, Pl. 28 fig. 2. 1729.

"Minion abounds with fine juice and firm pulp which adheres to the
stone; ripens on a South wall July 20."

    =Minnie.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =143=:185. 1897.

Minnie is a stray variety planted on the grounds of the Michigan
Agricultural College in 1892. It is a freestone, ripening in Michigan
the last of September.

    =Minot.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 43. 1895.

Fruit of medium size, oblique, oval; cavity broad, oval, deep; suture
deep; skin thick, velvety, rich yellow, with a crimson cheek; flesh
yellow to the stone, sprightly subacid; stone large, oval, free; ripens
the last of September.

    =Mint Free.= =1.= _Mo. State Fr. Sta. Rpt._ 14. 1905-06.

Mint Free is described as a greenish-white clingstone, ripening
throughout July.

    =Miss May.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 114. 1880.

Miss May originated with a Mr. Carroll, Dresden, Texas; fruit large, of
first quality and very late.

    =Miss Percival.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =21=:336. 1879.

A large, white freestone; very productive.

    =Missouri Apricot.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:99. 1892.

Listed in this reference.

    =Missouri Beauty.= =1.= _Mo. State Fr. Sta. Bul._ =3=:32. 1902.

Listed as grown in Missouri.

    =Missouri Mammoth.= =1.= _Mo. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 410. 1865.

This variety, as grown in Missouri, resembles Columbia of which it is
believed to be a seedling.

    =Mitchell.= =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 47. 1899. =2.= _Ibid._
    217. 1901. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 251. 1903.

Mitchell originated in Iowa with M. J. Graham of Adel; it is one of
the few hardy sorts grown in Iowa. Fruit of medium size, slightly
oval; suture distinct but not deep; apex conical; skin white, with a
red cheek; flesh streaked with red and red at the pit, melting, juicy;
stone free, of medium size; quality fair; ripens the last of September.

    =Mitchell Mammoth.= =1.= _U. S. Pat. Off. Rpt._ 380. 1858. =2.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 30. 1875.

This peach, of Southern origin, won a place in the fruit-list of the
American Pomological Society in 1875 which it held until 1897; fruit
large, late in ripening; flesh white; clingstone.

    =Mobray Heath Cling.= =1.= _Peachland Nur. Cat._ 12. 1892.

According to the Peachland Nurseries, Seaford, Delaware, this variety
is a beautiful, white cling from Dorchester County, Maryland.

    =Modena.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 210. 1676.

"Modena is an excellent peach of a yellowish color and comes clean from
the stone."

    =Modeste.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 50. 1876.

A large and good peach with small flowers and globose glands.

    =Mogneneins.= =1.= Baltet _Cult. Fr._ 237. 1908.

Listed in this reference.

    =Molden White.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 621. 1857. =2.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 78. 1862.

This sort originated on Molden Mountain on the Chesapeake, where it is
valued for its lateness. From 1862 until 1897 it held a place in the
fruit-catalog of the American Pomological Society. Fruit large, oblong;
suture distinct; skin creamy-white, rarely with a tinge of red; flesh
white to the stone, juicy, sweet, melting; freestone; ripens at the end
of September.

    =Monfrein.= =1.= Christ _Wörterb._ 352. 1802.

This is a peach with firm, yellow flesh, not very juicy but sweet.

    =Monsieur Jean.= =1.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 218. 1817.

This variety ripens in July and August; fruit oval, greenish-white,
with a red cheek.

    =Monstrous Free.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:36. 1832. 2.
    Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 187. 1841.

Tree moderately productive; fruit very large, round, highly colored
where exposed; flesh rich, juicy, sweet; ripens early in September.

    =Monstrous Lemon.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:29. 1832.

    _Largest Lemon._ =2.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 98. 1831.

Tree vigorous; flowers small; fruit very large; ripens in October.

    =Monstrueuse de Saverdun.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 50. 1876.

Probably of French origin; glands reniform.

    =Montagne Tardive.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 50. 1876.

An English variety.

    =Montauban.= =1.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ 1752. =2.= Lindley
    _Guide Orch. Gard._ 263. 1831.

    _Montabon._ =3.= Langley _Pomona_ 102, Pl. 28 fig. 4. 1729.

Tree productive; leaves doubly serrate, glandless; flowers large,
pale; fruit medium in size, with a small suture; skin greenish-yellow,
covered with deep red in the sun; flesh white to the stone, melting,
juicy, rich, freestone; ripens the middle of August.

    =Montgomery Late.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 621. 1857. =2.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 30. 1875.

This variety, of American origin, was listed by the American
Pomological Society from 1875 until 1897. Glands reniform; flowers
large; fruit large, round, depressed at the apex; suture shallow but
distinct; skin downy, yellowish-white, with a dull red cheek; flesh
red at the stone, very juicy, melting; freestone; ripens the first of
September, lasting nearly a month.

    =Monticola.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:813. 1896.

A good market peach but unproductive; glands reniform; fruit large,
round; color beautiful yellow, with a deep red cheek; pleasant acid
flavor.

    =Montreal.= =1.= Brookshaw _Hort. Reposit._ =2=:191, 192, Pl.
    100 fig. 2. 1823.

This peach originated in Montreal, France. The fruit is nearly black
and the variety is often called "The Black Peach of Montreal." The
peach has a rich flavor, thin skin, and a remarkably small stone, close
to which the flesh is red. It ripens the latter part of September when
most other peaches are gone.

    =Moore Favorite.= =1.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 193. 1849. =2.=
    Fulton _Peach Cult._ 186. 1908.

    _Moore._ =3.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:220. 1899.

According to Cole, this peach originated with H. K. Moore, Chelsea,
Massachusetts. Fulton claims that it is a native of Delaware, and
that it originated with J. V. Moore, Odessa. Tree hardy, vigorous,
productive; fruit large, roundish, slightly oval, with a shallow
suture; skin creamy-white, with a clear red blush; flesh white, red at
the pit, juicy, tender, with a rich, vinous flavor; pit free; season
early September.

    =Moore June.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 621. 1857.

Moore June originated at Athens, Georgia. Glands reniform; flowers
small; fruit below medium in size, globular; suture shallow; cavity
deep; skin yellowish, nearly covered with dots and marblings of deep
red; flesh white, red at the pit and often near the skin, juicy,
vinous, pleasantly flavored; freestone; ripens the last of June.

    =Moore Rareripe.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 200. 1841.

A large, round, productive peach of excellent quality, ripening in
September.

    =Moore Seedling.= =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =15=:290. 1897.

This is a small, yellow-fleshed freestone of little value.

    =Morello.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 210. 1676.

"Morello peach is a fair, red-sided fruit, and parts from the stone."

    =Morris County.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:30, 36. 1895.
    =2.= _Ibid._ =169=:220. 1899.

This peach is similar to Morris White but ripens later. Tree strong,
spreading; glands reniform; fruit of medium size, roundish; suture
a line; apex prominent; skin creamy-white, with a red cheek; flesh
creamy-white, red at the pit, moderately juicy, tender, with a mild but
somewhat astringent flavor; quality fair; stone oval, free; ripens the
middle of September.

    =Morris Red.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 275. 1854.

    _Red Rareripe._ =2.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 219, 220. 1817.
    =3.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:14. 1832.

    _Morris Red Rareripe._ =4.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 480. 1845.
    =5.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 192, 193. 1849. =6.= Hooper _W. Fr.
    Book_ 225, 226. 1857.

    _Morris Red Freestone._ =7.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._
    189. 1846.

Morris Red has been confused with George IV and Red Rareripe but is
distinct. Prince believed that the variety came from Europe while
Downing considered it of American origin. It seems to have been
disseminated by Robert Morris, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Tree
vigorous, productive; glands globose; flowers small; fruit large,
roundish, depressed at the apex, with a distinct suture; skin pale
greenish-white, with a bright red cheek; flesh pale greenish-white,
quite red at the pit, juicy, melting, with a rich, sweet flavor;
freestone; ripens the last of August.

    =Morrisania.= =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 226. 1866.

    _Morrisania Pound._ =2.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =6=:410. 1826.

    _Hoffman Pound._ =3.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 189.
    1846.

Martin Hoffman claims this variety originated with him at York Island,
and that buds were taken by Gouverneur Morris of Morrisania, near New
York City. Glands globose; flowers small; fruit very large, heavy,
nearly round; flesh light yellow, firm, compact, juicy, rich, aromatic;
stone free, large; ripens the middle of September.

    =Mother Porter.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 315. 1889.

W. W. Smith found this seedling in the yard of a Mrs. Porter, Napa,
California. The fruit is yellow-fleshed to the pit to which it clings.

    =Mountain Cling.= =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 120. 1898.

Mentioned as grown in Iowa for home use.

    =Mountain Rareripe.= =1.= _N. J. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 39, 40. 1884.

Mountain Rareripe resembles Oldmixon Cling in general appearance and
ripens about with it. It is recommended as a profitable variety for
market.

    =Mountain White.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =31=:58. 1887.

Listed by the Michigan Experiment Station.

    =Mountaineer.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 100. 1831. =2.=
    Hogg _Fruit Man._ 226. 1866.

Mountaineer is a coarse peach raised from a pit of Red Nutmeg crossed
with Early Violet nectarine. Glands globose; flowers large; fruit
large, roundish, somewhat pointed at the apex; skin smooth, pale yellow
and dark red; flesh red at the stone, melting, juicy, rich; freestone;
matures early in September.

    =Mr. Gladstone.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:67.
    1900.

Listed as a weak grower.

    =Mrs. Hunley.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 623. 1869.

This variety, of southern origin, comes from the Fruitland Nursery,
Augusta, Georgia. Leaves with reniform glands; flowers small; fruit
of medium size, one-sided, pale yellow; flesh yellow, rich, melting;
ripens late in September.

    =Mrs. Poinsett.= =1.= _Horticulturist_ =4=:276. 1849-50. =2.=
    Elliott _Fr. Book_ 285. 1854.

This variety is the result of crossing Blood Cling with some yellow
freestone. It was named after Mrs. J. R. Poinsett of South Carolina.
The limbs are inclined to be pendant; leaves with globose glands; fruit
globular; suture distinct; skin yellow, veined with red; flesh yellow,
juicy, melting; stone partially clinging; ripens early in September.

    =Munson Cling.= =1.= Munson _Cat._ 6. 1904-05.

This is a seedling of Elberta with which it ripens; the fruit is more
spherical. It was grown by T. V. Munson, Denison, Texas.

    =Munson Free.= =1.= Munson _Cat._ 7. 1904-05.

This is another Elberta seedling grown by T. V. Munson, Denison,
Texas. On the Station grounds the fruit ripens with Elberta and just
after it. Tree upright, unproductive, quite spreading; leaves large,
leathery, with reniform glands; flowers appear in mid-season, of medium
size, reddish-pink; fruit large, oval-conic, halves unequal, sides
drawn in about the cavity; cavity shallow; suture shallow; apex with a
recurved, mamelon tip; skin thin, tough, with long, coarse pubescence,
lemon-yellow, with narrow splashes and stripes of darker red; flesh
red at the pit, juicy, stringy, firm, sprightly in some cases; quality
good; stone free, large, oval-pointed, winged.

    =Murat.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 290. 1893.

This is another seedling of Late Crawford grown by C. C. Engle, Paw
Paw, Michigan. As tested in the Station orchard, it is of doubtful
value. Tree spreading; glands reniform; flowers small; fruit of medium
size, roundish, bulged; suture shallow except at the apex; surface
velvety, yellow, washed and mottled with red; flesh stained at the
pit, melting, juicy, vinous, sprightly; quality very good; stone above
medium in size, oval, free; season late.

    =Murray Malacatune.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 200. 1841.

Listed as a large, fine fruit.

    =Murrays Early Anne.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:24. 1832.

According to Prince, this is a seedling of Anne.

    =Muscade de Montauban.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 50. 1876.

A productive variety devoid of glands, with medium-sized flowers and
large fruit; ripens late.

    =Muscogee.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 75. 1873.

Muscogee was raised by J. C. Cook, Columbus, Georgia. Fruit large,
roundish or a little one-sided; skin dingy, pale yellow, striped like
Columbia; flesh white, faintly red at the stone, melting, juicy,
buttery, rich; quality very good; pit small, round, free; matures the
middle of August.

    =Musi.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:89. 1896.

Growing at De Funiak Springs, Florida.

    =Musk.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 211. 1676.

"Musk peach is a large, good tasted beautiful fruit."

    =Müskirter Aprikosenpfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:218. 1858.

Tree very productive; flowers small; fruit of medium size, round,
yellow, with a light red blush; flesh firm, vinous; ripens at the end
of July.

    =Musser.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =19=:274. 1877. =2.= Stoll
    _Pomologie_ Pl. 52 fig. 2. 1888.

A variety from Pennsylvania; fruit globular, more flattened near the
stem; suture broad; cavity deep; skin somewhat woolly, white except
where washed with red; flesh very juicy, vinous, sugary, somewhat
fibrous; stone clinging, small; ripens very early.

    =Muyzerwinkel.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 50, 221. 1876.

Listed in this reference.

    =My Choice.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 77. 1893.

Listed as exhibited by the Illinois Station.

    =Myer Seedling.= =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:352. 1889.

A freestone, making fair sauce but not rich.

    =Myers.= =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 238. 1906.

Myers is one of the hardy seedlings from Iowa.

    =Myers Rareripe.= =1.= _Am. Gard._ =11=:715. 1890.

A variety from Alameda, California.

    =Mystery.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:221. 1899.

    _Yellow Mystery._ =2.= Lovett _Cat._ 39. 1889.

A variety from Maryland ripening a week before Troth. Tree moderately
vigorous, fairly productive; fruit large, roundish, compressed;
cavity narrow, deep; suture indistinct; skin dark yellow, with a dark
red cheek; flesh red at the pit, juicy, coarse but tender, vinous;
freestone.

    =Nain Aubinel.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:176, 177 fig. 1879.

This dwarf originated with a M. Aubinel, a nurseryman at Grenade,
Haute-Garonne, France, about 1846, but was not introduced until some
years later. Tree dwarf in habit; branches short; leaves with large,
reniform glands; flowers small; fruit of medium size, roundish-oval,
irregular, halves unequal; apex with a mamelon tip; skin thick, yellow,
purple in the sun, heavily pubescent; flesh red at the stone, melting,
juicy, sweet, vinous; of second quality; stone free, of medium size,
oval, plump; ripens the first of September.

    =Nall.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 314. 1889.

Nall originated with a Mr. Nall, Louisville, Kentucky. It is described
as a strong grower and sure bearer. The fruit is a yellow cling.

    =Namaper.= =1.= _Ont. Sta. Rpt._ =4=:71. 1897. =2.= _Ibid._
    =7=:54. 1900.

A promising market sort, very productive and vigorous, little subject
to leaf-curl; fruit large, oval, resembling Elberta but ripens a week
later.

    =Nancy.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:57. 1910.

Nancy was named by Peter Collier, Adrian, Michigan, about 1900. The
fruit is large and ripens late; has no special merit.

    =Nanticoke.= =1.= _Pa. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 48. 1882. =2.= _Mo.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 406. 1890.

A profitable, yellow freestone; upright grower.

    =Napoleon.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 624. 1869.

Supposed to have originated near Macon, Georgia; glands reniform;
flowers small; fruit of medium size, round; skin very downy, dark red;
flesh pink, juicy, rich; freestone; ripens the last of July.

    =Nash.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:99. 1892.

Listed in this reference.

    =National.= =1.= Burbank _Cat._ 1912-13.

A giant Muir-Crawford peach. Tree strong, productive; fruits ripen
before the Crawfords, according to Luther Burbank, Santa Rosa,
California.

    =Native Seedling.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:89. 1896.

Listed in this reference.

    =Natural Seedling No. 81.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:89. 1896.

Listed in this reference.

    =Navar.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 210. 1676.

"Navar peach is of a whitish color and comes clean from the stone."

    =Near.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:58 fig. 1910.

Near originated with John Near, Shelby, Michigan. It is a seedling of
Chili, probably fertilized by Early Crawford. It ripens a week ahead of
Chili and is considered promising but has not yet been disseminated.

    =Nectar.= =1.= Barnes Bros. _Cat._ 4. 1913.

According to Barnes Brothers, Yalesville, Connecticut, Nectar was
received in a shipment from Texas. Tree thrifty, hardy; flowers large;
fruit of medium size; skin and flesh yellow, nearly free; ripens before
Greensboro.

    =Nectarine.= =1.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =15=:208. 1868. =2.= Hogg
    _Fruit Man._ 454. 1884.

Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, grew this peach from a pit of
the Grand Noir nectarine. Leaves with reniform glands, small; flowers
large; fruit very large, ovate, terminating in a pointed nipple; skin
nearly smooth like a nectarine, yellow, with a mottled, red cheek;
flesh semi-transparent, red at the stone, melting, brisk, rich;
freestone; ripens the middle of September.

    =Need.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:31. 1895. =2.= _Ibid._
    =169=:221. 1899.

Tree moderately strong, round, upright; glands reniform; flowers
small; fruit of medium size, roundish, slightly ovate; suture extends
two-thirds around the fruit; flesh yellow, stained at the stone, juicy,
tender, mild, vinous; quality fair; season the last of August.

    =Neil (Marshall).= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:31. 1895. =2.=
    _Ibid._ =169=:221. 1899.

Tree moderately vigorous, unproductive; fruit of medium size, roundish,
irregular, with a suture distinct only at the apex; color yellow, with
a light marbling of red; flesh yellow, tender, moderately juicy, mild
and pleasant, free; of fair quality; season early October.

    =Nelson.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 161. 1881. =2.= _Tex. Sta.
    Bul._ =39=:813. 1896.

A small, late cling of little value in Texas.

    =Nelson Seedlings.= =1.= _Mo. State Fr. Sta. Rpt._ =1=:11, 12.
    1901. =2.= _Ibid._ 14. 1905-06.

These seedlings are mentioned by numbers 1, 2, 4 and 5, numbers 4 and 5
being yellow-fleshed freestones.

    =Nettie Corbet.= =1.= Van Lindley _Cat._ 17. 1892.

According to J. Van Lindley, Pomona, North Carolina, Robert Corbet,
Gates County, North Carolina, originated and named this peach after
his daughter, Nettie. Fruit large, of a dingy yellow color; freestone;
ripens in August.

    =New Bellegarde.= =1.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 264, 265.
    1831.

New Bellegarde is very similar to Galande but is probably distinct.
Fruit medium in size, slightly oblong, with a very shallow suture;
color pale yellow, marbled and shaded with deep red; flesh pale yellow,
red at the pit, melting, juicy, highly flavored, free; ripens the first
of September.

    =New England Cling.= =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =14=:119. 1863.

A very profitable clingstone and uniformly productive.

    =New Golden Purple.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 190. 1841.

A variety from Virginia where it is highly esteemed; fruit large,
yellow-fleshed, stained with red at the stone; freestone; ripens two
weeks before Heath Cling.

    =New Globe.= =1.= _Green River Nur. Cat._ 15. 1899.

Tree vigorous; fruit golden-yellow, large, freestone, according to the
Green River Nurseries, Bowling Green, Kentucky.

    =New Noblesse.= =1.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 249. 1831.

New Noblesse was grown at one time about Brentford, England. Leaves
doubly serrate, glandless; flowers large; fruit of medium size, oval,
with an obscure suture; skin pale greenish-yellow, marbled where
exposed; flesh greenish-yellow to the stone from which it separates,
juicy, rich; ripens early in September.

    =New White Rareripe.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 103. 1831.

Listed but not described.

    =New York Early Lemon Clingstone.= =1.= _Lond. Hort Soc. Rpt._
    =6=:413, 414. 1826.

A seedling of the Lemon Clingstone; fruit larger and ripens a fortnight
earlier than that of its parent.

    =Newhall.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 313. 1889.

Sylvester Newhall, San Jose, California, was the originator of this
variety; tree hardy, vigorous, not affected by leaf-curl; fruit large;
flesh deep yellow, juicy, vinous, rich; ripens a week before Late
Crawford.

    =Newman.= =1.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 194. 1849.

A seedling from Charles Newman, Reading, Massachusetts; fruit large,
round; flesh white, juicy, melting, sweet; ripens the last of September.

    =Newington (of America).= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 100.
    1831. =2.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 25. 1876.

This is an unproductive clingstone ripening at the end of September.
The glands are globose and the fruit is of first size but the sort is
unworthy cultivation.

    =Nicarde.= =1.= Baltet _Cult. Fr._ 238. 1908.

A variety grown in France.

    =Nichols.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 38. 1909.

    _Nichols Orange Cling._ =2.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 314. 1889.

This is a productive clingstone which originated with Joseph Nichols,
Niles, California. In 1909 it gained a place on the fruit-list of the
American Pomological Society.

    =Nicholson Smock.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:99. 1892.

Grown on the Delaware Station grounds.

    =Nicols Beauty.= =1.= _Peachland Nur. Cat._ 14. 1892.

A large, yellow variety from Delmar, Delaware, according to the
Peachland Nurseries, Seaford, Delaware.

    =Nina Cling.= =1.= Harrison _Cat._ 18. 1910.

According to J. G. Harrison and Sons, Berlin, Maryland, Nina Cling is a
yellow peach of high quality ripening about the middle of August.

    =Nivette.= =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 103, 104, Pl. XXX fig. IV.
    1729. =2.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =1=:196, 197. 1831. =3.= Poiteau
    _Pom. Franc._ =1=:No. 24, Pl. 1846.

    _Nivette Veloutée._ =4.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:39,
    40, Pl. 28. 1768. =5.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:135, 136, fig. 66.
    1866-73. =6.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:197, 198 fig., 199. 1879.

    _White Rareripe._ =7.= _Horticulturist_ =1=:210, 258. 1846-47.

The origin of Nivette is unknown. It is a very old variety and seems
to have been popular in the Old World for many years. In America,
where it was first known early in the Nineteenth Century, it became
confused with Morris White. The distinguishing characters between the
two are: Morris White has reniform glands and white flesh while Nivette
has globose glands and flesh which is red at the pit. Tree vigorous,
upright, productive; fruit large, roundish, more or less elongated,
flattened a little at the base, having a distinct suture, which so
divides the fruit that one side is more projecting than the other;
apex a mamelon point; color yellowish-white, occasionally tinged with
some red veins and with a blush on the sunny side; flesh white, with
red veins around the stone, very juicy, melting, with a rich, sweet,
vinous flavor; quality good to very good; stone free, oval; season the
last of September.

    =Nix.= =1.= _Austin Nur. Cat._ 10. 1909.

    _Nix Late Cling._ =2.= _Cultivator_ 3rd Ser. =4=:146. 1856.

    _Nix Late White._ =3.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 25. 1876.

    _Nix October._ =4.= _N. C. Sta. Rpt._ =12=:108. 1889.

    _Nix Late._ =5.= J. S. Kerr _Cat._ 5. 1898.

An old, southern peach highly esteemed at one time.

    =Noblesse.= =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 101, Pl. 28 fig. 3. 1729.
    =2.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 249, 250. 1831. =3.= _Pom.
    Mag._ =2=:95, fig. 1839. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 78. 1863.

    _Noblest._ =5.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ 1752.

    _Edlepfirsche._ =6.= Christ _Handb._ 592. 1817.

    _Mellish Favorite._ =7.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 178. 1835.

    _Edle Magdalene._ =8.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:198. 1858.

Noblesse is a very old, English variety. It was added to the fruit-list
of the American Pomological Society in 1862 where it remained until
1897. Leaves doubly serrate, glandless; flowers large, pale; fruit
large, roundish, terminating in an acute nipple at the apex; skin pale
yellowish-green, marbled with dull red, with streaks and blotches of
darker red; flesh pale white to the stone, melting, juicy, highly
flavored; stone large, obovate, free; ripens at the end of August.

    =Noblesse Early.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 101. 1831.

Listed in this reference.

    =Noblesse of Oatlands.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 101. 1831.

Listed in this reference.

    =Nonpareil.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 293. 1854.

    _Scotts Nonpareil._ =2.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 301. 1849.
    =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 78. 1862.

Nonpareil originated in Burlington, New Jersey. The fruit resembles
that of Late Crawford but is sweeter. Nonpareil was on the fruit-list
of the American Pomological Society from 1862 until 1871. Glands
globose; ripens the middle of September.

    =Normand.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =104=:90. 1894. =2.= _Ibid._
    =169=:222. 1899.

    _Normand Choice._ =3.= Lovett _Cat._ 34. 1891.

Tree strong, upright; glands reniform; fruit of medium size, roundish
to oval; flesh creamy-white to the stone, firm, mild; stone slightly
adherent; quality fair; season early October.

    =North China No. 2.= =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =15=:290. 1897.

Received at this Station from the Iowa Agricultural Experiment Station,
Ames, Iowa. Fruit small, round, greenish-white, mottled with dull red;
flesh juicy, sweet, good, free; ripens the first of September.

    =Norton Late.= =1.= _Kan. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 50. 1901.

This is a fine, large peach resembling Elberta, ripening the last of
September; obtained from J. I. Norton, Salina, Kansas.

    =Norvell Mammoth.= =1.= _Ind. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 64. 1902.

A seedling clingstone raised by Dr. H. V. Norvell, Bloomfield, Indiana.
Fruit larger than Heath Cling; ripens the middle of September.

    =Novalis.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 309. 1889.

Novalis is a seedling of Peento which originated with S. M. Gass, San
Diego, California. Fruit slightly oblong; flesh white; ripens with the
Alexander to which it is superior in flavor.

    =Nugent June.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 111. 1880. =2.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 34. 1883.

This variety originated with E. J. Nugent, Ottawa, Kansas. It was on
the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society from 1883 until
1891. Fruit very early, yellow; clingstone.

    =Number 2.= =1.= _Kan. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 80. 1898.

This sort is a seedling of Marcella grown by E. T. Daniels, Kiowa,
Kansas. It resembles Late Crawford but ripens the last of October.

    =Number 34 H.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =104=:90. 1894.

Listed as having reniform glands; flowers large; flesh yellow; ripening
the middle of September.

    =Number 83.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:86. 1896.

Listed in this reference.

    =Nutmeg.= =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 582. 1629.

"The Nutmeg peach is of two sorts, one that will be hard when it is
ripe and eateth not so pleasantly as the other, which will be soft
and mellow; they are both small peaches having very little or no
resemblance at all to a nutmeg except in being a little longer than
round and are early ripe."

    =Oblong.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 458. 1883.

Glands reniform; flowers small; fruit large, roundish-oval,
yellowish-red; ripens at the end of September.

    =Oceana.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =194=:46. 1901. =2.= _Mich.
    Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:58. 1910.

Oceana was grown from a pit of Chili by B. F. Garver, Oceana County,
Michigan. Fruit large, yellow; ripens just after Barnard.

    =October Beauty.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 161. 1881. =2.=
    _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:239. 1898.

Tree upright, dense; leaves very large, with globose glands;
clingstone; of little value.

    =October Free.= =1.= _Mo. State Fr. Sta. Rpt._ 14. 1905-06.

A yellow freestone, ripening in Missouri about September 13th.

    =October White.= =1.= _Am. Gard._ =11=:715. 1890.

This is a late, white-fleshed peach which originated as a sport from
Myers Rareripe.

    =October White Clingstone.= =1.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 17.
    1820.

Listed in this reference.

    =October Yellow.= =1.= _Am. Jour. Hort._ =3=:334. 1868.

A rather small, yellow, freestone peach of good quality, ripening in
Illinois early in October. It may be the October Free from Missouri.

    =Octoberta.= =1.= _Austin Nur. Cat._ 10. 1909.

T. Heep, Austin, Texas, raised this variety about 1909, probably from a
pit of Elberta. The fruit ripens in September and October, according to
the Austin Nursery Company, Austin, Texas.

    =O'Gwynne.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 205. 1858.

Listed as growing in the south.

    =Oignies.= =1.= _Ann. Pom. Belge_ =7=:45, 46, Pl. 1859.

There is a difference of opinion as to the origin of this variety but
it is generally believed to have come from seed in the province of
Hainaut, Belgium. Tree vigorous, productive; fruit large, roundish;
suture large but shallow; skin heavily pubescent, greenish-yellow, more
or less colored with red; flesh yellowish-white, colored at the stone,
melting, juicy; stone oval, medium in size, free; ripens early in
September.

    =Old English.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:34. 1889.

Listed by the Texas Experiment Station.

    =Old Newington.= =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 104, Pl. 31 fig. 1.
    1729. 2. Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:9, 10. 1832.

    _Newington._ =3.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 580. 1629.

    _Large Newington._ =4.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 226. 1817.

    _Newington Magdalene?_ =5.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:200.
    1858.

Old Newington was at one time a favorite cling in England, having
been cultivated there for over two hundred years. Flowers large;
leaves doubly serrate, glandless; fruit large, globular, with a slight
suture; skin pale yellowish-white, with a red cheek; flesh pale
yellowish-white, stained with deep red at the stone, firm, juicy, rich;
ripens the middle of September.

    =Old Royal Charlotte.= =1.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 250,
    251. 1831.

Old Royal Charlotte has been known in England since about 1760. Leaves
doubly serrate, glandless; flowers large, pale; fruit of medium size,
roundish, narrowed at the apex; skin pale greenish-yellow, marbled with
deep red; flesh white to the stone, soft, vinous; stone obtuse, free;
ripens from the middle to the last of August.

    =Old Settler.= =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 532. 1898.

A hardy variety grown in Iowa.

    =Olden.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 392. 1891.

This white-fleshed freestone ripens the first of September in southern
Missouri.

    =Olga.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 41. 1877.

A seedling of Lady Parham raised by L. E. Berckmans, Rome, Georgia,
about 1873.

    =Onderdonk.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 46. 1891. =2.= _Tex.
    Sta. Bul._ =39=:806. 1896. =3.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._
    =2=:353. 1903. =4.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._ =156=:134. 1911.

    _Onderdonk's Favorite._ =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 160. 1881.

Onderdonk bears the name of its originator, G. Onderdonk, Nursery,
Texas. Tree vigorous and productive in the south; leaves with reniform
glands; fruit of medium size, oblong, flattened, with a pointed apex;
color lemon-yellow; flesh yellow, slightly acid, moderately tender;
quality fair; pit free; ripens in the south the first of August.

    =Opoix.= =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 103. 1901.

Opoix is a Russian variety named in honor of a French gardener, a M.
Opoix. Tree vigorous; leaves with reniform glands; flowers small; fruit
large, roundish, distinctly sutured; flesh white, vinous, juicy, sweet;
freestone; ripens early in October.

    =Orange Cling.= =1.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 17. 1820. =2.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 497. 1845. =3.= _Gard. & For._ =6=:520.
    1893. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 34. 1899.

    _Orange._ =5.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 228. 1832.

In California this variety is said frequently to produce a second crop
of small, inferior fruit. Leaves serrate, often without glands; fruit
large, round, with a distinct suture; skin deep orange, with a dark red
cheek; flesh dark yellow, firm, juicy, with a vinous flavor; season
September.

    =Orange Free.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:99. 1892. =2.= Thomas
    _Am. Fruit Cult._ 690. 1897.

A medium-sized, round, freestone, with yellow flesh.

    =Orange Smock.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 290. 1893.

Regarded by J. W. Kerr, Denton, Maryland, as superior to any other
peach of the Smock type. The tree is stocky and productive and the
fruit ripens in Maryland about September 5th.

    =Orchard Queen.= =1.= _Gard. Chron._ 237. 1848. =2.= Koch
    _Deut. Obst._ 539. 1876. =3.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:258 fig.,
    259, 260. 1879.

    _Monstrueuse de Doué._ =4.= _Horticulturist_ N. S. =5=:70. 1855.

    _Monstrous of Douay._ =5.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 33. 1874.

This variety originated with Jamin Lorèze, near Doué, Maine-et-Loire,
France, about 1847. Tree very hardy, productive; glands reniform;
flowers small. Fruit valuable for the market, with its large size and
firm flesh; oval, distinctly sutured; skin yellowish-white, blushed
with purplish-red where exposed; flesh white, stained near the pit,
firm, juicy, sprightly; stone free, large, ovoid, plump; matures late
in August.

    =Ord.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 101. 1831.

Ord is allied to Chancellor. Glands reniform; flowers small; skin
greenish-yellow; flesh melting; of second quality; ripens at the
beginning of September.

    =Oriole.= =1.= _La. Sta. Bul._ =21=:612. 1893. =2.= _Del. Sta.
    Rpt._ =13=:105. 1901.

Oriole originated with Dr. L. E. Berckmans, Augusta, Georgia, about
1876 from a pit of General Lee. On the Station grounds the variety is
a fair producer but the fruit is only good for pickling. Tree inclined
to spread, vigorous; leaves broad, nearly flat, serrate; glands
reniform; flowers appear in mid-season, large, pink; fruit large, oval
to roundish-oval; cavity deep, narrow; suture shallow, deepening at the
apex which ends in a mucronate tip; skin thick, tough, covered with
coarse, thick pubescence; color golden-yellow, with a varying blush and
often with splashes of duller red; flesh light yellow, stained at the
pit, moderately juicy, meaty, coarse, sprightly; stone clinging, oval,
pointed, winged; ripens the third week in September.

    =Orlando.= =1.= _La. Sta. Bul._ =22=:681. 1893. =2.= _Ibid._
    =27=:943. 1894.

Fruit of medium size; color white, with a red cheek; flesh stained near
the pit; clingstone; ripens in Louisiana early in June.

    =Orleance.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 210. 1676.

"Orleance red peach is a fine fruit, and leaves the stone."

    =Orleans.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 158. 1898.

Orleans is best known in Orleans County, New York, where it originated
with Julius Harris of Ridgeway. On the Station grounds the trees are
not very productive. Trees upright, slightly spreading, open; leaves
numerous, rugose at the midrib, slightly curled up; glands small
and globose; flowers appear late, small; fruit large, roundish-oval
to roundish-conic, halves unequal, bulged at the apex; cavity deep;
suture shallow; apex often tipped with a mucronate point; skin tough,
covered with thick pubescence, greenish-yellow, becoming almost
orange, slightly splashed with dull red forming a mottled blush;
flesh tinged with red about the pit, juicy, coarse, stringy, sweet,
mild, high-flavored; very good in quality; stone free, large, ovate,
conspicuously winged; ripens the middle of September.

    =Orman.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:34. 1899. =2.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 38. 1909.

Listed by the American Pomological Society as having originated in
Texas.

    =Oro.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 263. 1892.

Oro was brought to notice by C. S. Bell, Oroville, California. Glands
reniform; fruit large, oblate-conic; skin thin, tender, yellow, with
a bright red blush; flesh reddish-yellow, melting, juicy, vinous,
subacid; freestone; ripens in California the last of September.

    =Ortiz Cling.= =1.= _Boonville Nur. Cat._ 19. 1912.

This clingstone ripens in September and attains the size of Elberta. It
is excellent for preserving.

    =Oscar.= =1.= Greening Bros. _Cat._ 81. 1899.

    _Oscar Black Prince._ =2.= _Ont. Sta. Rpt._ =43=. 1899.

This variety is from Greening Brothers, Monroe, Michigan. The fruit is
much like that of Alexander but darker in color and perhaps is a little
better in quality; it ripens about two weeks later than Alexander.

    =Osceola.= =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:233, 234, fig. 115.
    1866-73. =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 629. 1869.

A peach of the Indian type which originated in Macon County, Georgia.
Glands reniform; flowers large; fruit of medium size, roundish,
compressed at the ends; apex tipped with a mamelon point; skin thick,
golden-yellow, with a red cheek; flesh stained with dull red at the
pit, fibrous, sweet, pleasant; stone free, roundish-oval, plump;
matures late in September.

    =Osprey.= =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 455. 1884.

    _Orfraie._ =2.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 55, 222. 1876.

Osprey originated with Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, about
1860 from a seed of Pitmaston Orange nectarine. Leaves with globose
glands; flowers small; fruit very large, oblate, distinctly sutured;
skin creamy, with a crimson stain where exposed; flesh tender, melting,
deeply stained at the pit to which it clings, sprightly.

    =Ostrander Early.= =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =15=:290. 1897.

This variety originated in Rochester, New York. The fruit resembles
that of Early Crawford but is ten days earlier.

    =Ostrander Late.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:31. 1895. =2.=
    Brown Bros. _Cat._ 35. 1900.

Listed as a yellow-fleshed freestone, bearing globose glands; ripens in
November.

    =Overheiser.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:59. 1910.

This is a variety from western Michigan resembling Honest John but the
peach lacks the flavor and aroma of the fruit of Honest John.

    =Oviedo.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:819. 1896. =2.= _Fla. Sta.
    Bul._ =73=:149. 1904. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 38. 1909.

S. J. Kennard, Waldo, Florida, grew Oviedo from a pit of Honey about
1892. In 1909 the variety appeared in the list of the American
Pomological Society. Tree a rapid grower, productive; fruit
roundish-oblong, bulged on one side; skin thin, tough, becoming
smoother on ripening, greenish-yellow, marbled with dull red where
exposed; flesh firm, meaty, white, stained at the pit, medium juicy,
sweet, agreeable; quality very good; stone free, elliptical, curved,
with a recurved point; season late in June in Florida.

    =Owen.= =1.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 195. 1849. =2.= Elliott _Fr.
    Book_ 287. 1854.

J. Owen found this variety in his garden at Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Glands globose; fruit very large, roundish; flesh yellow, tinged at the
pit, tender, juicy; freestone; ripens the last of September.

    =Oxford.= =1.= _Concord Nur. Cat._ 16. 1899.

According to the Concord Nurseries, Concord, Georgia, this variety is a
very desirable peach for home or market to follow Elberta; flesh firm,
crisp, adherent.

    =Ozark Queen.= =1.= _Mo. State Fr. Sta. Rpt._ =1=:11. 1901.

Listed in this reference.

    =Padley.= =1.= Brookshaw _Pom. Brit._ =1=:Pl. 24 fig. 2. 1817.
    =2.= Brookshaw _Hort. Reposit._ =1=:33, Pl. 17 fig. 1. 1823.

Padley was raised by William Padley, once a gardener for the King of
England, at Hampton Court, England. It is described as being a peach
with delicious flavor, ripening the first of August.

    =Palestine.= =1.= _Tex. Nur. Cat._ 4. 1913.

Briefly described by the Texas Nursery Company, Sherman, Texas, as a
very large, round, yellow clingstone, ripening from August to September.

    =Pansy.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 43. 1895. =2.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:222. 1899.

Fruit large, roundish-oblong, compressed, with a shallow suture; color
yellow, washed and blushed with deep red; flesh yellow, tinged with
red at the stone which is free, tender, melting, juicy, mild subacid;
quality fair to good; season the middle of August.

    =Paragon.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 287. 1854.

    _Prince's Paragon._ =2.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 200. 1841. =3.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 624. 1857.

Paragon was probably first introduced by William R. Prince, Flushing,
New York. Tree vigorous, productive; glands globose; fruit large,
roundish-oval; skin yellowish-green, shaded with red; flesh white, red
at the pit, juicy, sweet, rich, free; season the middle of September.

    =Parfumée de Montauban.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 408. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Parham.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 22. 1897.

    _Lady Parham._ =2.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 299. 1859. =3.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 619. 1869. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 18. 1871.

Parham appeared in the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society
in 1871 as Lady Parham; in 1897 the name was changed to Parham. The
variety originated with Thomas Affleck of Mississippi. Glands reniform;
flowers small; fruit of medium size, roundish, halves unequal,
distinctly sutured; skin yellowish-white; flesh pale red at the stone,
firm, rich, vinous; freestone; ripens the middle of October.

    =Parker.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 311. 1889. =2.= _Ohio
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 9. 1910.

Originated about 1885 as a seedling of Early Crawford in the orchard of
J. C. Parker, near San Diego, California. Fruit large, oblong, swollen
on one side of the suture which is quite prominent; skin yellow, with a
dark red cheek; flesh yellow, red at the pit which is free, juicy, with
an agreeable, acid flavor; ripens the first of October.

    =Parks.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 38. 1909. =2.= Waugh _Am.
    Peach Orch._ 206. 1913.

    _Parks' Cling._ =3.= _Gard. Mon._ =13=:56, 313, 348. 1871.

Parks originated by chance on the grounds of A. L. Parks, Alton,
Illinois. Fruit large, roundish-oblate, with a deep suture extending
entirely around the fruit; skin light creamy-yellow, nearly covered
with red; flesh adherent, creamy-white, stained with red along the
veins and at the stone, very juicy; of fair quality; season very late.

    =Parnell.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =22=:275. 1880.

Said to have been originated by J. H. Parnell, West Point, Georgia.
Fruit large, dark red, very juicy and of an excellent flavor, with a
small, free pit; season early.

    =Parson Early.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 310. 1889. =2.=
    Munson _Cat._ 6. 1905-06.

This peach is supposed to be of California origin. It is a large,
freestone fruit, with a red cheek and white flesh, ripening early, and
the tree is an abundant bearer.

    =Pass-Violet.= =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 103, Pl. XXX fig. III.
    1729.

Fruit of an orange color, faintly dotted with brownish-red; flesh very
red around the stone which is free; ripens early in August.

    =Patterson.= =1.= _Am. Gard._ =11=:379. 1890.

Said to have originated in Greenfield, Indiana, some time prior
to 1888. Fruit uniformly large, greenish-yellow, overspread with
considerable red; flesh yellow, juicy, of fair quality; season the last
of September.

    =Pau.= =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:41, 42. 1768. =2.=
    Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:204, 205 fig., 206. 1879.

    _Lackpfirsich von Pau._ =3.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:211. 1858.

Pau is an old sort spoken of early in the Seventeenth Century. Leaves
with small, globose glands; flowers of medium size; fruit very large,
roundish; cavity large; suture distinct; skin heavily pubescent,
yellowish-white, marbled and striped with reddish-brown; flesh white,
stained near the pit, melting, fibrous, juicy, sprightly; quality fair;
stone free, large, ovoid, plump; ripens at the end of September.

    =Paul Boynton.= =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =15=:290. 1896.

Received at this Station in 1889 from the Greenmont Nurseries,
Dansville, New York. A large, roundish-oval, yellowish-red peach of
fair quality, ripening the last of October.

    =Pavie Abricotée.= =1.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 44. 1867.

    _Aprikosenartiger Härtling._ =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 387. 1889.

Tree moderately vigorous, productive; leaves with reniform glands;
flowers small; fruit medium to above in size, oblate; suture deep; skin
deep orange, intense red where exposed; flesh yellow, red about the
stone, melting, fibrous, juicy, sugary, aromatic; stone clinging, oval;
ripens early in September.

    =Pavie Alberge.= =1.= Duhamel _Trait Arb. Fr._ =2=:11. 1768.

    _Yellow Alberge Clingstone._ =2.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:22.
    1832.

    _Herz-Pfirsiche._ =3.= _Deut. Obstcabinet_ =7=:Pl. 6. 1858.

    _Härtling Aprikosenpfirsich._ =4.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde._
    =3=:219. 1858.

    _Pavie Alberge Jaune._ =5.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:209, 210
    fig., 211. 1879.

Tree medium in size, productive; leaves large, with reniform glands;
flowers variable, rose-colored; fruit large, roundish, somewhat
flattened, with a moderately deep suture; skin lightly pubescent,
yellow, marbled with dark purplish-red; flesh golden-yellow, red at the
pit which is closely adherent, juicy, sweet, aromatic; of fair quality;
ripens the last of September.

    =Pavie Demming.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:216. 1879.

Sent out in 1860 by P. J. Berckmans, Augusta, Georgia. Fruit large,
with a yellowish-orange color, dotted and washed with dark red; season
late.

    =Pavie Duff Jaune.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:216, 217. 1879.

According to Leroy this peach was sent out in 1860 by P. J. Berckmans,
Augusta, Georgia. Fruit large, greenish-white, with a deep red blush,
ripening the last of August.

    =Pavie Duperron.= =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:63, 64, fig. 30.
    1866-73.

According to Mas, this peach was raised from seed of Malta by a M.
Duperron, near Pont-de-Veyle, Ain, France. Fruit large, roundish-oval;
skin yellowish-white, with considerable red in the form of a blush;
flesh clinging, yellow, deep red near the pit, sweet, somewhat
aromatic; quality good; ripens in October.

    =Pavie Genisaut.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =20=:570. 1854.

Listed as a yellow, clingstone peach coming from Bordeaux, France, many
years ago.

    =Pavie d'Italie Très Hâtif.= =1.= Liegel _Syst. Anleit._ 185.
    1825.

Listed in this reference as a desirable fruit.

    =Pavie de Jalagnier.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 101. 1831.

Listed in this reference.

    =Pavie Jaune.= =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:34. 1768.
    =2.= Christ _Wörterb_. 355. 1802. =3.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 230.
    1832. =4.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=:No. 35, Pl. 1846.

    _Grosser Pavien-Aprikosenpfirsich._ =5.= Dochnahl _Führ.
    Obstkunde_ =3=:219, 220. 1858.

    _Pavie Alberge._ =6.= Noisette _Man. Comp. Jard._ =2=:481. 1860.

Pavie Jaune should not be confused with Pavie Alberge which ripens
later. Tree vigorous; glands reniform; flowers small, faintly colored;
fruit very large, round, a little flattened; suture shallow, wide; skin
heavily pubescent, dark yellow, blushed, marbled with darker red; flesh
yellow, red about the pit, firm, not fibrous, vinous, juicy; quality
good; stone adherent, oval, obtuse at the ends; ripens the middle of
September.

    =Pavie Mazères.= =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:227, 228, fig. 112.
    1866-73.

This peach is a chance seedling found by a M. Mazères, Toulouse,
France. Fruit large, roundish, irregular; skin yellowish-white, with a
deep blush; flesh clinging, white, stained deep red at the pit, juicy,
sweet and pleasantly flavored; season from the middle to the last of
October.

    =Pavie Mirlicoton.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:223. 1879.

A variety once grown in France but long since lost to cultivation.

    =Pavie Muy-Swantzel.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:224 fig.,
    225. 1879.

Originated in America and introduced into France about 1850 by D.
Dauvesse, Orleans, Loiret, France. Fruit of medium size, roundish,
compressed at the base, with a distinct suture; color greenish-white,
washed, striped and dotted with red; flesh white, tinged with red
near the pit which is adherent, juicy, firm, sweet, with a pleasant,
aromatic flavor; ripens the last of July.

    =Pavie de Pamiers.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:13, 14. 1832.
    =2.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 45. 1867. =3.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._
    =6=:225 fig., 226, 227. 1879.

Pavie de Pamiers is of French origin and was introduced into America
in 1832 by William Robert Prince, Flushing, New York. Fruit large,
roundish, flattened at the ends, with a large, distinct suture; skin
white, with an attractive, red blush; flesh white, red at the stone,
firm but tender, juicy, sweet; quality good; ripens in the south of
France early in August.

    =Pavie de Pompone.= =1.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ 1752. =2.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 498. 1845.

    =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 30. 1877. =4.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._
    =6=:229, 230 fig., 231. 1879.

    _Pavy Royal._ =5.= Langley _Pomona_ 105, Pl. 32 fig. 2. 1729.

    _Pavie rouge de Pomponne._ =6.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._
    =2=:37, 38, Pl. 26. 1768.

    _Monströse Härtling._ =7.= Christ _Handb._ 599, 600. 1817.

    _Monstrous Pavie._ =8.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 220. 1817.

    _Riesenpfirsche._ =9.= Liegel _Syst. Anleit._ 185. 1825.

    _Monstreuse._ =10.= Prince _Treat. Hort._ 17. 1828.

    _Monstrous Pomponne._ =11.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =1=:197. 1831.

    _Monströser Lieblingspfirsich._ =12.= Dochnahl _Führ.
    Obstkunde_ =3=:207, 208. 1858.

This old French variety was spoken of by many early writers. Among
these was Arnauld d'Andilly who raised the first fruits in 1655 at
his home, the Pompone estate, Seine-et-Marne, France. It was early
introduced into America and in 1877 was added to the fruit-list of
the American Pomological Society where it remained for twenty years.
Duhamel mentions a Red Pavie that differs from this variety only in
that it ripens earlier and is smaller. Tree vigorous; leaves crenate,
with reniform glands; flowers large; fruit very large, somewhat oval,
with a well-defined suture; apex with a mamelon tip; skin an intense
red on a yellowish-white ground; flesh firm, red at the pit; stone
adherent, small for the size of fruit; ripens in dry seasons from the
middle to the end of October.

    =Pavie Tardif.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 233, 234. 1832. =2.=
    Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=:No. 36, Pl. 1846.

Fruit large, compressed at the sides, with a distinct suture; skin
yellow, washed with a red blush; flesh yellow, red at the pit, juicy,
with a pleasant flavor; ripens the last of October.

    =Pavie Très-Tardif Madame Vergé.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 409.
    1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Pavien Lieblingspfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:208. 1858.

Tree hardy and productive; fruit moderately large, of a yellowish-straw
color, with a dark reddish-purple blush; flesh firm, very juicy, with a
pleasant, vinous flavor; ripens in September.

    =Pavier Pleureur.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:228 fig., 229.
    1879.

    _Pêcher Pleureur._ =2.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 51, 52. 1867.

    _Trauerpfirsich._ =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 416. 1889.

This curious old peach of unknown origin has been known for nearly a
century. It is said to reproduce itself from seed. Fruit of medium
size, roundish, regular; skin clear yellow, washed with red; flesh
greenish-white, red at the pit, juicy, with a sharp, bitter flavor;
clingstone; ripens the last of September.

    =Payne.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:60 fig. 1910. =2.= _U.
    S. D. A. Yearbook_ 428, 429, Pl. 35. 1910.

Payne originated in 1901 as a sprout from a peach-stock in the orchard
of E. B. Payne and Sons, near Cloverdale, Michigan. Fruit large, round,
with a shallow suture; color yellow, blushed and splashed with crimson;
flesh yellow, slightly stained with red at the pit, melting, tender,
juicy, with a pleasant, subacid flavor; quality good; stone free;
ripens the last of August.

    =Peach de Pavie.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 210. 1676.

Said to be a good, yellow peach.

    =Peach du Troas.= =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 582. 1629.

"The peach _du Troas_ is a long and great whitish yellow Peach, red on
the outside, early ripe, and is another kinde of Nutmeg Peach."

    =Pearce.= =1.= Greening Bros. _Cat._ 82. 1899. =2.= _Ont. Fr.
    Exp. Sta. Rpt._ =7=:55. 1900.

According to Greening Brothers, Monroe, Michigan, this variety was
raised by P. S. Pearce, Catawba Island, Ohio. Fruit large, roundish;
skin yellow, blushed with red; flesh yellow, free, with excellent
flavor and good quality; season the middle of September.

    =Pearl I.= =1.= _Horticulturist_ N. S. =7=:178. 1857.

Originated many years ago with Mrs. L. A. Franklin, Athens, Georgia.
Fruit large, round, creamy-white, with a rich red cheek; flesh
adherent, white but red at the pit, firm, juicy, vinous, excellent;
season the last of August.

    =Pearl II.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 290. 1893. =2.= _Mich. Sta.
    Sp. Bul._ =44=:61. 1910.

This peach is said to be a cross between Late Crawford and Hale Early,
originating with C. C. Engle, Paw Paw, Michigan. Fruit large, roundish,
slightly elongated, with a shallow suture; color creamy-white, slightly
shaded with crimson stripes; flesh free, creamy-white, juicy, melting,
fibrous, with a rich, vinous flavor; season the middle of September.

    =Pearson No. I.= =1.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =15=:114. 1868.

Raised by a Mr. Pearson, Chilwell, England. Fruit large, yellow; flesh
deep orange-yellow, very melting, juicy, pleasantly flavored; quality
good.

    =Pêche Baboud.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:171, 172. 1883.

Leaves of medium size, with reniform glands; flowers very small; fruit
large, irregularly ovoid, surface uneven; apex with a mamelon tip;
skin fine, with heavy pubescence, pale yellow, blushed with intense
purple in the sun; flesh white, stained about the pit, slightly
acidulated, aromatic; stone large, nearly free; ripens the middle of
August.

    =Pêche de Bisconte.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Pêche Blonde. 1.= Poiteau Pom. Franc. =1=:No. 26, Pl. 1846.

Leaves small, with reniform glands; flowers large; fruit of medium
size, elongated, with rugose surface; skin yellow, blushed and striped
with clear red; flesh white, stained faintly at the pit, vinous; stone
large, long; ripens at the end of August.

    =Pêche de Brahy.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Pêche Everardt.= =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 316. 1889.

Fruit large, regular, spherical; flesh orange-yellow, stained at the
pit, juicy; ripens at the end of August.

    =Pêche Grosse Violette.= =1.= _Ann. Pom. Belge_ =3=:89, Pl.
    1855.

Tree productive; fruit large, round, distinctly sutured; skin with a
deep red blush on a greenish-yellow ground; flesh white, red at the
pit, sweet, vinous, aromatic; matures the middle of September.

    =Pêche d'Ile.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Pêche d'Ispahan.= =1.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=:No. 7, Pl.
    1846.

This peach was raised from seed brought to Paris, France, from Asia,
about 1800, by a French naturalist, Olivier. Fruit small, nearly round,
marked with a deep suture; skin greenish-white; flesh greenish-white,
juicy, fibrous, with a delicious flavor when fully mature; season the
middle of September.

    =Pêche Jaune Hâtive de Doné.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186.
    1883.

Listed but not described.

    =Pêche de Lion.= =1.= Christ _Wörterb._ 351. 1802.

A beautiful, somewhat elongated fruit, with firm, yellow flesh;
freestone; ripens at the end of October.

    =Pêche du Quesnoy.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 52. 1876.

Said to resemble Grosse Mignonne.

    =Pêche Quétier.= =1.= _Flor. & Pom._ 216. 1876.

Said to be a seedling of an English variety, raised by a M. Quétier,
Meaux, Seine-et-Marne, France. Fruit large, round, with a distinct
suture; skin yellow, with a deep red blush; flesh free, yellow, sweet,
vinous, excellent; season late.

    =Pêche Reine des Tardives.= =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 324, 325, Pl.
    1889.

Raised from a pit of Baltet which it resembles. Fruit large, oval,
sides often unequal; skin yellow, washed with considerable red; flesh
free, yellow, with red veins extending through it, juicy, with a sweet,
aromatic flavor; season very late.

    =Pêche Rouge de Mai.= =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 276, Pl. 1888.

Fruit roundish-oblate, somewhat irregular; skin almost entirely covered
with bright red; flesh white, semi-free, very juicy, sweet, with a
pleasant, vinous flavor; ripens the beginning of August.

    =Pêche de Sainte-Anne.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 51, 223.
    1876. =2.= _Guide Prat._ 35, 210. 1895.

Originated in the Province of Lombardy, Italy. Fruit large, beautifully
colored with dark red; flesh yellow, red at the pit, fibrous, sweet;
ripens the first of August.

    =Pêche Souvenir de Pierre Tochon.= =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 246, 247.
    1906.

This peach was raised in 1891 but its parentage is unknown. Fruit very
large, regular; color yellow, blushed with red; flesh yellowish-white,
juicy, sweet; purplish-red next the pit which is free; quality very
good; ripens the middle of September.

    =Pêche de Syrie.= =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:7, 8, fig. 2.
    1866-73. =2.= _Pom. France_ =6=:No. 26, Pl. 26. 1869. =3.=
    Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:283, 284 fig., 285. 1879.

    _D'Egypt._ =4.= _Mag. Hort._ =20=:270. 1854.

    _Syrische Pfirsich._ =5.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 416. 1889.

This variety probably originated from a peach-pit brought to France
from Egypt about 1802 by a M. Barral, a surgeon in the French army.
Fruit medium in size, roundish-oval, with a moderately deep suture;
skin pale yellow, washed with dark red; flesh yellowish-white, tinged
with red at the center, juicy, sweet, with a pleasant, vinous, aromatic
flavor; quality good; stone free; ripens from the first to the middle
of September.

    =Pêche Théophile Sueur.= =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 574, 575, Pl. 1909.

Arthur Chevreau, a horticulturist at Montreuil-sous-Bois, France,
obtained this variety from a peach-pit which he planted in 1897. Tree
vigorous, productive; fruit medium to large, roundish, with a highly
colored surface; flesh white, with red veins at the center, juicy,
sweet; good to very good in quality; stone free; season early in
September.

    =Pêche Tondu.= =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 261, 262. 1888.

Originated at Montreuil, France, in 1878. Tree vigorous, productive;
glands reniform; fruit large, oval; skin blushed with deep red; flesh
white, stained at the pit, sweet, aromatic; ripens at the end of
September.

    =Pêche de Trianon.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 51. 1876.

Listed in this reference.

    =Pêche de Vérone.= =1.= Christ _Wörterb._ 356. 1802. =2.= Mas
    _Le Verger_ =7=:239, 240, fig. 118. 1866-73. =3.= Leroy _Dict.
    Pom._ =6=:298 fig., 299. 1879.

This peach originated about 1830 in Verona, Venetia, Italy. Fruit
large, roundish-oval, with a distinct suture; skin yellowish-white,
dotted and washed with red in the sun; flesh free, white, tinged with
purplish-red at the pit, juicy, sweet, with a pleasant, vinous flavor;
ripens the first of September.

    =Pêche de Verviers.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 52. 1876.

A glandless variety with rose-colored flowers.

    =Pêche de Vigne Blanche.= =1.= Baltet _Cult. Fr._ 236. 1908.

Listed as a pubescent, freestone variety.

    =Pêche de Vigne Jaune.= =1.= Baltet _Cult Fr._ 236. 1908.

This is also a freestone peach with pubescent skin.

    =Pêche de Vigne Rouge.= =1.= Baltet _Cult. Fr._ 236. 1908.

Still another pubescent, freestone peach.

    =Pêche Vineuse Jaune.= =1.= Carriére _Var. Pêchers_ 63. 1867.

Said to have been obtained in France by a M. Morel. Fruit large,
roundish, somewhat flattened; skin yellowish-orange, with a carmine
blush; flesh free, pale yellow, purplish-red at the pit, juicy, sweet,
aromatic; season the middle of August.

    =Pêcher à Bois Jaune.= =1.= Decaisne _Jard. Fruit._ =7=:Pl.
    1872-75. =2.= _Rev. Hort._ 516. 1889.

This variety originated in the vicinity of Toulouse, Haute Garonne,
France, and is valued both for its fruit and as an ornamental. Fruit of
medium size, nearly round, often depressed at the base, with a distinct
suture; skin orange-yellow, dotted and washed with red; flesh free,
yellow, somewhat red about the pit, juicy, sweet and aromatic; ripens
the last of September.

    =Pêcher Douteux.= =1.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 102. 1867.

The tree of this variety has many characteristics of the almond while
the fruit resembles the peach. Fruit of medium size, marked with a deep
suture; skin yellowish-white, blushed with red; flesh free, white,
slightly tinged with red at the pit, rather sweet and aromatic, with an
agreeable flavor; season very late.

    =Pêcher à Fleur Semi-Double.= =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._
    =2=:42, 43, Pl. XXX. 1768.

    _Pêcher à Fleurs Doubles._ =2.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=:No.
    25, Pl. 1846.

This curious old peach has double flowers and bears its fruits in
clusters of from one to four. Fruit small, roundish, with a well-marked
suture; skin pale yellow, washed with clear red; flesh greenish-white,
often red at the pit, fibrous, juicy, sweet, with an agreeable flavor;
ripens the last of September.

    =Pêcher Hâtif de Chine.= =1.= Decaisne _Jard. Fruit._ =7=:Pl.
    1872-75.

Said to resemble Honey in certain characters. Fruit medium in size,
roundish; color greenish-yellow, with a red blush; flesh free, white
or sometimes tinged with red, juicy, often with an astringent flavor;
ripens the last of July.

    =Pêcher Hybride Quétier.= =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 115. 1888. =2.=
    _Ibid._ 42, 43. 1889.

This peach originated with a M. Quétier, Meaux, Seine-et-Marne, France,
as a cross between Grosse Mignonne and an apricot. Tree vigorous;
glands reniform; fruit of medium size, somewhat flattened, with a deep
suture; skin greenish-yellow, marbled with red; flesh strongly adherent
to the stone, white, juicy, firm, with a sweet, aromatic flavor; ripens
early in October in France.

    =Pêcher Nain à Fleur Double.= =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._
    =2=:45, 46. 1768.

Said to be a dwarf, double-flowering peach seldom bearing fruit and
useful only as an ornamental.

    =Pêcher Nain d'Orléans.= =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 42 fig. 18, 43, 44.
    1908.

According to the reference this peach was mentioned by Louis Ligier
in 1714. Fruit of medium size, round, with a deep suture; skin pale
greenish-yellow, with a red blush; flesh white, tinged red at the pit
which is adherent, moderately sweet, not of high flavor.

    =Pêcher Petite Madeleine.= =1.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 78,
    79. 1867. =2.= Decaisne _Jard. Fruit._ =7=:Pl. 1872-75.

Leaves glandless; flowers small; fruit small, round, slightly
depressed; skin greenish-white, marbled with red; flesh free, white,
dark red at the stone, very juicy, sweet, with a pleasant, aromatic
flavor; ripens the middle of August.

    =Pêcher Thuret.= =1.= Decaisne _Jard. Fruit_ =7=:Pl. 1872-75.

This peach was raised in 1862 by Gustave Thuret, Antibes, Alpes
Maritimes, France, from a seed sent from China. Fruit large, with a
distinct suture on one side; skin yellow, washed with dark red; flesh
yellowish-white, red at the pit which is usually free, juicy, sweet,
pleasantly flavored; season the last of August.

    =Peck Orange Cling.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 314. 1889.

In the reference Luther Burbank says that this variety is an improved
seedling of Orange Cling, originated at Healdsburg, California. Fruit
large, with yellow flesh; valuable for market or drying.

    =Pendleton.= =1.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:240. 1898. =2.=
    Berckmans _Cat._ 13. 1899.

A very large, yellow, clingstone peach of good quality, ripening the
first of September.

    =Penelope.= =1.= Hoffy _N. Am. Pom._ =1=:Pl. 1860.

This peach originated with Isaac Baxter, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Fruit large, roundish; skin greenish-white, slightly stained with
red; flesh greenish-white, red at the pit which is free, juicy, rich;
quality very good; season the middle of September.

    =Peninsula.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:223. 1899. =2.=
    Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:353. 1903.

    _Peninsula Yellow._ =3.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:99. 1892.

Fruit large, roundish, often inclined to oval, with a shallow suture;
color yellow, washed with red; flesh yellow, red at the pit which is
free, juicy, firm, with a vinous, sprightly flavor; ripens the middle
of September.

    =Pennington.= =1.= _Okla. Sta. Bul._ =2=:14. 1892.

Listed in this reference.

    =Peregrine.= =1.= _Garden_ =64=:126, 127, 157. 1903. =2.=
    _Ibid._ =69=:334. 1906.

This variety is supposed to be a seedling of the Spencer nectarine,
raised by Thomas Rivers and Son, Sawbridgeworth, England, and
introduced about 1906. Fruit large, with a bright crimson color; flesh
melting and juicy, with a pleasant flavor; season early August.

    =Perfection.= =1.= _Chico Nur. Cat._ 26. 1904.

According to the Chico Nursery Company, Chico, California, Perfection
originated near Weston, Umatilla County, Oregon. Fruit large,
yellow, with a beautiful blush; flesh yellow, red at the pit, thick,
fine-grained; season early in September.

    =Period Early Nutmeg.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 101. 1831.

Listed in this reference.

    =Persian Cling.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 317. 1889. =2.=
    _Fancher Creek Nur. Cat._ 27. 1906.

This variety is supposed to have originated from a seed of Heath Cling
at Visalia, California. Fruit large, with clear white skin; flesh white
to the pit, very firm, sweet; valuable for canning; ripens with its
parent.

    =Persique.= =1.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ 1752. =2.= Duhamel
    _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:40, 41, Pl. XXIX. 1768. =3.= Coxe _Cult.
    Fr. Trees_ 229, 230, fig. 15. 1817. =4.= Prince _Pom. Man._
    =2=:13. 1832. =5.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:236, 237. 1879.

    _Grosse Perseque._ =6.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 232. 1832.

    _Persique Clingstone._ =7.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:36. 1832.

    _Persischer Lackpfirsich._ =8.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:215. 1858.

    _Persée._ =9.= _Le Bon Jard._ 329. 1882.

Persique is a very old variety of unknown origin, the name having often
been confused with other sorts. Fruit large, oblong, somewhat angular,
often with small protuberances over the surface and with a distinct
swelling at the apex; skin velvety, with considerable red; flesh white,
light red next the stone, juicy, melting, with a rich, agreeable
flavor; stone large, free; ripens from the last of September to early
October.

    =Peruvianischer Blutpfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:194. 1858.

Fruit large, dark red, almost black; flesh dark red; ripens at the end
of September.

    =Pesca Mandorla.= =1.= _Gard. Chron._ 907. 1858.

Exhibited at the Imperial and Royal Horticultural Society, Tuscany,
Italy.

    =Pesca Melo.= =1.= _Gard. Chron._ 907. 1858.

Also exhibited at the Imperial and Royal Horticultural Society,
Tuscany, Italy.

    =Peter Cling.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 152. 1883.

Listed in this reference as coming from Washington County, Texas.

    =Petite Bourdine.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:141, 142, fig. 7.
    1883.

Fruit of medium size, elongated-oval; skin pale yellowish-white, washed
with deep red; flesh white, striped with dark red at the pit which is
free, juicy, firm, sweet, with a pleasant, aromatic flavor; season the
middle of September.

    =Petite Imperial.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 30. 1877.

    _Petit Imperial Mammoth White._ =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 155.
    1858.

    _Petit's Imperial._ =3.= _Mag. Hort._ =30=:208. 1864.

A large, white, moderately juicy, vinous peach with reniform glands,
ripening rather late.

    =Petite Mignonne.= =1.= _Traité des Pêchers_ =8.= 1750. =2.=
    Prince _Pom. Man._ =1=:174, 175. 1831. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
    402. 1889.

    _Double de Troyes._ =4.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:8, 9,
    Pl. IV. 1768. =5.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:107, 108 fig., 109.
    1879.

    _Kleine Lieblingspfirsche._ =6.= Christ _Handb._ 596, 597. 1817.

    _Grosse rothe Frühpfirsche._ =7.= Liegel _Syst. Anleit._ 179,
    180. 1825.

    _Kleiner lieblicher Lackpfirsich._ =8.= Dochnahl _Führ.
    Obstkunde_ =3=:213, 214. 1858.

Besides being larger than Red Nutmeg, with which it is sometimes
confused, this variety has small flowers of a very pale rose-color. It
was first spoken of by the French in 1670. Leaves with small, reniform
glands; fruit small, globose; skin thin, white, with some red; flesh
stained at the pit, firm, sweet, aromatic; stone free, small, ovoid,
plump; matures early in August.

    =Petite Pavie d'Ounous.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =26=:152, 153. 1860.

Tree small; fruit nearly round, marked with a distinct suture; skin
yellowish-white, dotted with a rose-color; flesh white, streaked with
red at the stone which is adherent, firm, juicy, subacid and somewhat
insipid; season very late.

    =Petite Violette Hâtive.= =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._
    =2=:26, 27, Pl. XVI, fig. 2. 1768.

Fruit large, nearly round; skin yellowish-white, with a reddish-violet
blush; flesh whitish-yellow, red at the pit, juicy, sweet, with a
vinous, aromatic flavor; season the first of September.

    =Pettingill Early.= =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =14=:119. 1863.

Said to have originated in Missouri from seed brought from New
Hampshire and planted in 1852. A bright, attractive fruit.

    =Pfirsich-Nectarine.= =1.= Lauche _Deut. Pom._ =VI=:No. 16, Pl.
    16. 1882.

This variety was raised from a nectarine seed about 1860 by Thomas
Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England. Fruit large, roundish, slightly
compressed; skin practically smooth on the sides but with fine
pubescence at the base and apex, yellowish-white, with a dark red
blush; flesh white, red at the pit, firm, juicy; quality good; season
the middle of September.

    =Pfirsiche mit Nicht Ablöslichem Stein.= =1.= _Deut.
    Obstcabinet_ =7=:Pl. 35. 1858.

Fruit oval, with a deep suture; skin pale yellow, washed with
purplish-red; flesh whitish-yellow, red at the pit, melting, with a
pleasant, subacid flavor; season the middle of October.

    =Pfirsiche von Pau.= =1.= _Deut. Obstcabinet_ =7=:Pl. 11. 1858.

Fruit large, round, with a shallow suture; color pale green, with some
red; flesh white, red at the pit, melting, juicy, subacid and pleasant;
ripens the middle of October.

    =Phfleiger.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 293. 1854.

An unproductive variety which bears large, yellow, freestone fruit with
good flavor and which ripens in September.

    =Phillips Cling.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 317. 1889. =2.=
    Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 206. 1913.

    =Phillips.= =3.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 392. 1891.

This peach originated with Joseph Phillips, Sutter County, California,
and was introduced by J. T. Bogue of Marysville. Fruit large, round,
slightly compressed; color lemon-yellow, lightly shaded with red; flesh
yellow, firm, juicy, with a sweet flavor; quality good; season the
first of September.

    =Piasa.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 166. 1895.

Said to produce a large, attractive yellow, freestone peach of good
quality, but not sweet, ripening August first.

    =Pickett.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:31. 1895. =2.= _Ibid._
    =169=:223. 1899.

Said to have originated in Missouri. Fruit of medium size, roundish,
slightly inclined to ovate; skin yellow, with a red blush; flesh
clinging, yellow, red at the pit, firm, juicy, with a mild, sprightly
flavor; quality fair; ripens the last of September.

    =Picquet Late.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 627. 1869. =2.=
    _Horticulturist_ =28=:151, 375. 1873.

Originated with Antoine Picquet, Belair, Georgia. Glands reniform;
fruit large, round, often somewhat flattened and one-sided; skin
yellow, with a red cheek; flesh yellow, melting, sweet, rich and
aromatic; stone free; ripens early in September.

    =Piel Pfirsich.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 53. 1876. =2.=
    Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 410. 1889.

Listed as a worthy, German variety.

    =Pierce Seedling.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:99. 1900.

Listed without a description.

    =Pignutt Late.= =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 9. 1877.

This variety is said to have been disseminated in southern Illinois,
where it proved to be a superior sort.

    =Pinckney.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 200. 1841.

A very large, excellent, late peach.

    =Pineapple.= =1.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 17. 1820.

    _Charlestowner Ananaspfirsche._ =2.= Christ _Wörterb._ 350.
    1802.

    _Grosse Charlestowner Ananaspfirsche._ =3.= Christ _Handb._
    600, 601. 1817.

    _Pineapple Clingstone._ =4.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =6=:414.
    1826.

    _Ananas-Aprikosenpfirsich._ =5.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:220. 1858.

Pineapple, according to Christ, is a seedling of Alberge introduced
from South Carolina some time previous to 1800. When perfectly ripe,
the juice is rich and lively and has the flavor of a pineapple.

    =Pingree.= =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =57=:21. 1898.

Listed in this reference.

    =Pitmaston Seedling Noblesse.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._
    101. 1831.

Listed but not described.

    =Plant.= =1.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:240. 1898. =2.= Berckmans
    _Cat._ 13. 1899.

    _Plant Cling._ =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 134. 1897.

Plant is an attractive peach of unknown origin. Tree low, compact,
only moderately healthy, unproductive; fruit very large, round,
lemon-yellow, with a red blush; flesh pale yellow, juicy, coarse, sweet
but of poor quality; clingstone; ripens from July 25th to August 10th.

    =Plowden.= =1.= _Horticulturist_ =26=:288. 1871. =2.= _Gard.
    Mon._ =13=:245, 246, 278, 343. 1871.

Plowden originated about sixty miles below Washington, D. C. The fruit
resembles that of Hale Early but ripens about ten days earlier. Fruit
large, roundish; flesh white, very juicy; quality good; stone free.

    =Pocahontas.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 205. 1858.

Listed in this reference.

    =Poinsett.= =1.= _Horticulturist_ =4=:277. 1849-50. =2.=
    Elliott _Fr. Book_ 287. 1854.

Originated in South Carolina. Leaves glandless; fruit large,
roundish-oval, with a pointed apex; color ruddy yellow; flesh firm,
juicy; clingstone; season September.

    =Pond Late.= =1.= _Tex. Nur. Cat._ 13. 1909.

According to the Texas Nursery Company, Sherman, Texas, this peach
originated and was introduced by E. W. Kirkpatrick, McKinney, Texas.
Fruit large, roundish-oblong; skin yellow; flesh yellow, free; of good
quality; season September.

    =Pond Seedling.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 179. 1886.

A large, desirable, hardy, late peach, ripening about September 25th.

    =Poole Island.= =1.= _Utah Sta. Bul._ =18=:14. 1892.

Listed in this reference.

    =Poole Large Yellow.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 194. 1841. =2.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 491. 1845. =3.= _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta.
    Rpt._ =7=:54. 1900.

    _Pool Favorite._ =4.= _Mo. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 97. 1910.

This peach originated near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, about 1840.
Fruit large, roundish, with a distinct suture; skin deep yellow, with
a dark red cheek; flesh free, yellow, red at the pit, rich, juicy, of
excellent flavor; ripens from the last of September to early October.

    =Porpree.= =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 105, Pl. XXXII fig. III. 1729.

    _Pourprée._ =2.= Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:87. 1771.

Porpree, according to some authors, resembles Rossanna. Tree very
branchy, productive; leaves sharply serrate; flowers small, purple;
fruit large, round, often irregular; skin slightly pubescent, purplish;
flesh purple, juicy, vinous; quality good; pit adherent, purplish;
ripens the last of August.

    =Port Royal.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 102. 1831.

Listed in this reference.

    =Porter.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 203. 1879.

Listed in this reference.

    =Portugal.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 211. 1676. =2.= Miller _Gard.
    Dict._ 1752. =3.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 277. 1831.

    _Portugiesische Pfirsche._ =4.= Christ _Handb._ 597. 1817.

Leaves usually glandless; fruit large, round; skin pale yellow, dark
red in the sun; flesh white, faint red at the stone which is closely
adherent, firm, with a rich, vinous flavor; ripens the middle of
September.

    =Potomac Heath.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 127, 128. 1854.

This large, late peach of good quality is said to have been brought to
notice by John Dowling, Fairfax, Virginia.

    =Pound Hardy.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:67. 1900.

Mentioned in the reference as being a tree of medium growth.

    =Pourpre de Frogmore.= =1.= _Guide Prat._ 38. 1895.

Of English origin. Glands globose; fruit medium in size, roundish,
very largely covered with deep purple; flesh white, melting, sweet,
refreshing; matures the second half of September.

    =Pourprée du Grand-Jardin.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 50. 1876.

Glands globose; flowers of medium size; fruit large, red; of first
quality; ripens late in August.

    =Pourprée Hâtive.= =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:19, 20;
    Pl. XI. 1768.

This variety is distinct from Grosse Mignonne with which it has been
confused. Fruit large, round, with a deep suture; color a deep, mottled
red in the sun; flesh white, red at the pit, juicy, vinous, pleasantly
flavored.

    =Pourprée Joseph Norin.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186. 1883.

Listed by Mas.

    =Pourprée Tardive de Lyon.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 410. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Powell.= =1.= _Okla. Sta. Bul._ =2=:14. 1892.

    _Powell's Mammoth._ =2.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:99. 1892.

Mentioned in these references.

    =Powers September.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:89. 1896.

Listed in this reference.

    =Prächtige von Choisy.= =1.= Gaucher _Pom. Prak. Obst._ No. 89,
    Tab. 7. 1894.

Fruit large or very large, roundish-oval, with a distinct suture; skin
greenish-yellow, with a deep, mottled blush; flesh whitish throughout,
juicy, melting, pleasant-flavored; season the last of September.

    =Prachtvolle Blutpfirsich.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 411. 1889.

    _Sanguine Grosse Admirable._ =2.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 64.
    1867.

Glands reniform; flowers large; fruit of medium size; skin covered with
a grayish pubescence, marbled and streaked with deep red; flesh deep
red, juicy, moderately sweet; stone red, oval; ripens at the end of
September.

    =Prado.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 50, 222. 1876.

Glands reniform; flowers small; fruit large, ripening the last of
September.

    =Präsident Griepenkerl.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 411. 1889.

Mentioned in this reference.

    =Pratt.= =1.= _Cult. & Count. Gent._ =52=:746. 1887. =2.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:223. 1899.

Said to have been brought to notice by J. H. Hale, South Glastonbury,
Connecticut. Fruit of medium size, roundish, compressed, with a
distinct suture; color yellow, with a red cheek; flesh yellow, red at
the pit, juicy, tender, mild; quality good; pit free; ripens the last
of August.

    =Précoce de Bagnolet.= =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 103. 1901.

This peach was raised from seed of Grosse Mignonne Hâtive a number
of years ago by a M. Savart, Bagnolet, Seine, France. Fruit large,
flattened, with a small suture; skin white, slightly rose-colored in
the sun; flesh white, juicy, sweet, vinous; quality good; stone free;
ripens a few days earlier than Hale Early.

    =Précoce de Beauregard.= =1.= Baltet _Cult. Fr._ 237. 1908.

Said to grow in the vicinity of Hyeres, Var, France.

    =Précoce de Bonpas.= =1.= Baltet _Cult. Fr._ 237. 1908.

Said to grow in the Pyrenees Mountains.

    =Précoce de Chartreuse.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =20=:271. 1854.

Fruit of medium size, highly colored; skin fine; flesh delicate,
melting, vinous; ripens early in September.

    =Précoce de Croncels.= =1.= Baltet _Cult. Fr._ 249, fig. 150.
    1908.

Fruit large, yellowish-amber, tinted with purplish-red; flesh juicy,
firm, with an agreeable flavor; ripens the first of August.

    =Précoce Gaudin.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 411. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Précoce de Mezen.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 52. 1876.

Said to have bell-shaped flowers and reniform glands.

    =Précoce du Périgord.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 50. 1876.

Fruit large and of good quality.

    =Précoce de Saint-Assicle.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 411. 1889.

    _St. Ascycles._ =2.= _Cal. Sta. Rpt._ 393. 1895-97.

Said to be of French origin.

    =Precocious.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =17=:368. 1875.

According to the reference, this is a seedling which grew with J.
Lewis, Alvin, Illinois, about 1873. Said to have bloomed when three
months old.

    =Premier.= =1.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =33=:80. 1877. =2.= Hogg
    _Fruit Man._ 456. 1884.

This peach is a cross between Grosse Mignonne and Bellegarde, raised
in the Royal Gardens, Frogmore, England. Fruit large, round; suture
shallow, terminated at the apex with a sharp nipple; skin nearly
covered with purplish-red, becoming very dark in the sun; flesh juicy,
tender, melting, with a rich, pleasant flavor; stone free.

    =President.= =1.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 17. 1820. =2.=
    Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:33, 34. 1832. =3.= _Pom. Mag._ =2=:54,
    Pl. 1839. =4.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 278. 1854.

    _Präsidenten-Lackpfirsich._ =5.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:211. 1858.

President originated at Bedford, New York, nearly a century ago and has
long since passed from cultivation. Tree healthy, productive, bearing
leaves with globose glands; fruit large, roundish-oval, with a shallow
suture; skin pale yellowish-green, with a red cheek; flesh white, red
at the pit which is free, juicy, sweet, highly flavored; ripens the
middle of September.

    =President Church.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 623, 624.
    1857. =2.= _Horticulturist_ N. S. =7=:179. 1857. =3.= Mas _Le
    Verger_ =7=:221, 222, fig. 109. 1866-73. =4.= Leroy _Dict.
    Pom._ =6=:245, 246 fig. 1879.

    _Church._ =5.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 62. 1891.

This variety was raised by Rev. A. Church, President of Franklin
College, Athens, Georgia. Glands reniform; fruit large, roundish,
inclining to oval; suture often a mere line; skin pale yellow, mottled
and washed with dark red; flesh white, pale red at the pit, juicy,
melting, with a delicious flavor; stone free; season the middle of
September.

    =President Lyon.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 187. 1880.

This variety was raised from a seed of Early Crawford planted in 1870
by C. C. Engle, Paw Paw, Michigan. Tree hardy, vigorous, productive;
glands reniform; fruit similar to Early Crawford but larger.

    =Preston.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:99. 1892. =2.= Thomas _Am.
    Fruit Cult._ 690. 1897. =3.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:105, 106.
    1901.

Preston originated with a Mr. Preston, near Greensboro, North Carolina,
and was introduced by J. Van Lindley of Pomona. Its parentage is
unknown. Fruit large, creamy-yellow, with a red cheek; flesh light
yellow, juicy, adherent; quality good; ripens two weeks later than
Chinese Cling.

    =Price.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:808, 809. 1896.

Fruit of medium size, roundish, slightly pointed; color greenish-white,
with a light red cheek; freestone; season the first of August.

    =Pride of Autumn.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 50. 1876.

This peach has rose-colored flowers, reniform glands and ripens in
October.

    =Pride of Franklin.= =1.= _Rural_ N. Y. =46=:352. 1887. =2.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 198. 1899.

Said to be grown extensively in New Jersey. Fruit large, round, with
yellow skin and flesh; freestone; quality good; resembles Late Crawford
and ripens about five days later.

    =Pride of Idaho.= =1.= Chase _Cat._ 20. 1895. =2.= _N. Y. Sta.
    Rpt._ =15=:290. 1897.

According to the R. G. Chase Company, Geneva, New York, this peach
originated in the mountains of Western Idaho. Fruit of medium size,
having a yellow skin, with a slight blush; ripens after Late Crawford.

    =Pride of Northboro.= =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 434. 1904.

Said to have done well in the vicinity of Shenandoah, Iowa.

    =Prince Blood Clingstone.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:32. 1832.

A superior variety of its class raised by William Prince; used mostly
for preserves, compotes, and pickles. Flowers small; fruit large, oval;
skin very downy, dark purplish; flesh crimson; flavor indifferent.

    =Prince Climax.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 641. 1857.

Said to have originated on the farm of George Mitchell, Flushing, New
York. Tree very productive; fruit large, oval; skin yellow, mottled
with a crimson cheek; flesh yellow, very rich, aromatic, with a
pineapple flavor; stone adherent; ripens from the middle to the end of
September.

    =Prince Eugène.= =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 228. 1866.

    _Eugen von Savoyen._ =2.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:205.
    1858.

    _Prinz Eugen._ =3.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 50, 223. 1876.

Similar to Early Purple, of which it is a seedling, but smaller and
more deeply sutured. Tree vigorous and very productive; ripens the
middle of August.

    =Prince John.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 302. 1859. =2.= Leroy
    _Dict. Pom._ =6=:246, 247 fig. 1879.

This variety is of American origin and was sent to France in 1860 by P.
J. Berckmans, Augusta, Georgia. Fruit large, roundish or roundish-oval;
skin orange-yellow, with a deep red blush; flesh deep yellow, firm,
very juicy, with a delicious flavor; stone free; ripens the middle of
September in France.

    =Prince Late Yellow Freestone.= =1.= Bridgeman _Gard. Ass't._
    =Pt. 3=:107, 108. 1857.

A beautiful, greenish-yellow fruit, tinged with red, having a firm,
rich flesh.

    =Prince of Wales.= =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 229. 1866. =2.= _Am.
    Hort. Ann._ 79, 80. 1870. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 30. 1877.

    _Prinz von Wales._ =4.= Gaucher _Pom. Prak. Obst._ No. 90, Tab.
    17. 1894.

Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, raised this peach from a seed
of Pitmaston Orange nectarine. It fruited first in America with James
H. Ricketts, Newburgh, New York, in 1869. The variety held a place in
the American Pomological Society's fruit-list from 1877 to 1891. Tree
vigorous, bearing leaves with reniform glands; fruit of medium size,
roundish, slightly flattened, with one side enlarged; suture distinct,
extending beyond the apex; skin creamy-white, shaded and mottled with
red in the sun; flesh white, stained red at the stone from which it
freely separates, juicy, tender, melting, sweet, with a rich, vinous
flavor; ripens early in September.

    =Princess Paragon.= =1.= _Horticulturist_ N. S. =7=:177. 1857.

Fruit large, oval, with one side larger than the other; skin
yellowish-white, dotted and nearly overspread with red; flesh white,
melting, juicy; quality good; freestone; ripens the middle of August.

    =Princess of Wales.= =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 229. 1866. =2.=
    _Am. Hort. Ann._ 80. 1870. =3.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =24=:471.
    1873. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 30. 1877.

    _Princesse de Galles._ =5.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:248 fig.,
    249. 1879.

    _Prinzessin von Wales._ =6.= Lauche _Deut. Pom._ =VI=:No. 17,
    Pl. 1882.

    _Princess._ =7.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:223. 1899.

This peach is another seedling raised by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth,
England, about 1863, from a seed of Pavie de Pompone. It first fruited
in America some six years later with James H. Ricketts, Newburgh,
New York. The American Pomological Society listed the variety in its
fruit-catalog from 1877 until 1897. Tree vigorous, with leaves having
globose glands; fruit large, round, narrowing towards the apex which is
terminated by a nipple; suture indistinct; skin creamy-white, shaded
with a red cheek; flesh free, white, red at the stone, juicy, melting,
sweet, good; ripens the last of September.

    =Princesse Marie.= =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 228, 229. 1866. =2.=
    _Le Bon Jard._ 328, 329. 1882.

    _Prinzessin Marie von Württemberg._ =3.= Koch _Deut. Obst._
    540. 1876.

Tree vigorous, with glandless leaves; fruit of medium size, roundish;
skin yellowish-white, dotted with pale red and shaded with dark red;
flesh yellowish-white, rayed with red at the pit, melting, juicy, with
a rich, vinous flavor; stone free; season the middle of September.

    =Prize.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 34. 1899. =2.= _Mich. Sta.
    Bul._ =169=:223. 1899. =3.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._
    =2=:354. 1903.

Fruit large, roundish, with a slight suture; skin yellow, more or less
blushed with thin red; flesh free, yellow, red at the pit, juicy, very
tender, with a vinous, sprightly flavor; ripens from the middle to the
last of September.

    =Probst Friedrich Pfirsich.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186.
    1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Professeur Vilaire.= =1.= Baltet _Cult. Fr._ 238. 1908.

Listed in this reference.

    =Proudfoot.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:137, 138, fig. 5. 1883.

Probably originated with a Dr. Proudfoot, Cleveland, Ohio. Fruit large,
roundish-conic; skin greenish-yellow, washed with dark red; flesh
yellow, rather dark red at the pit which is free, juicy, sweet, tender,
with a pleasant, aromatic flavor; ripens from the first to the middle
of October.

    =Pry Favorite.= =1.= _W. Va. Sta. Bul._ =82=:406. 1902.

Said to ripen earlier than Lorentz.

    =Pullen.= =1.= Fulton _Peach Cult._ 177. 1908.

    _Pullen's Seedling._ =2.= _Gard. Mon._ =3=:215, 216 fig. 1861.

Raised by Isaac Pullen, Hightstown, New Jersey. Fruit very large,
compressed; color yellow, blushed with dark red; flesh yellow, with an
excellent flavor; ripens the last of September.

    =Purdy.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 279. 1882.

Valued for the size and attractiveness of the fruit; ripens just before
Late Crawford.

    =Purple Peach.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =25=:305. 1883.

This is a seedling, valued chiefly as an ornamental.

    =Pyramidal.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:250, 251 fig., 252.
    1879.

This peach which was found near Poissy, Seine-et-Oise, France, in
1823, is valued chiefly as an ornamental. Fruit small, roundish-oval,
irregular; skin yellowish-white, marbled with deep carmine; flesh
yellowish-white, slightly red at the pit, juicy, very sweet; quality
good; stone free; season the first of September.

    =Quaker.= =1.= _Augustine Nur. Cat._ No. =43=:7. 1910.

According to Augustine and Company, Normal, Illinois, this peach was
found in northwestern Iowa about 1900, by Colonel Milton L. Haney, and
was later introduced by the firm named. Tree hardy; fruit of medium
size; of fair quality.

    =Quality.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 290. 1893. =2.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Rpt._ 73. 1895.

Originated with J. W. Kerr, Denton, Maryland. Fruit medium to large,
roundish; color white, with a red cheek; flesh free, creamy-white,
tinged with red at the stone, juicy, melting, vinous, sprightly;
quality very good; season the last of August.

    =Queen.= =1.= _Mo. State Fr. Sta. Rpt._ =1=:11. 1901.

Mentioned as growing on the Missouri Station grounds.

    =Queen Caroline.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 102. 1831.

Listed in this reference.

    =Queen of Delaware.= =1.= Fulton _Peach Cult._ 178. 1908.

Originated in Delaware. Tree vigorous; fruit large, attractive white,
with a red blush; flavor excellent.

    =Queen Olga.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:67. 1900.

    _Königin Olga._ =2.= _Gard. Chron._ 437. 1885. =3.= Lucas
    _Handb. Obst._ 476. 1893.

Queen Olga is a seedling of Willermoz grown at Reutlingen, Württemberg,
Germany. Larger and earlier than its parent; flesh yellow, stained
about the pit from which it separates readily.

    =Queen of the South.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Bul._ =62=:517. 1902.

This peach is supposed to be a seedling of Peento and has been replaced
by better sorts. Fruit large, roundish-oblong, with a shallow suture;
skin dark yellow, washed with dull red; flesh yellow, red at the pit,
firm, juicy, sweet, slightly acid, pleasant; stone free; season July.

    =Queenes.= =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 582. 1629.

"The Queenes Peach is a faire great yellowish browne Peach, shadowed as
it were over with deepe red, and is ripe at Bartholmew tide, of a very
pleasant good taste."

    =Quetier.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 411. 1889. =2.= _Guide
    Prat._ 41. 1895.

Glands reniform; fruit large; flesh yellow, tender, juicy, sweet,
vinous, with a pleasant flavor; stone free; ripens from the first to
the middle of October.

    =Quince.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 211. 1676.

    "Quince Peach is something of that fashion, yellow and good."

    =R. S. Stevens.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:225. 1899. =2.=
    _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 114. 1900.

This peach is a seedling which originated on the grounds of late
congressman, R. S. Stevens, Attica, New York. On the Station grounds
the tree is rather strong, hardy, fairly productive; glands reniform;
fruit of medium size, roundish, compressed; suture distinct; apex a
mere point; skin yellow, with a dark red cheek; flesh deep yellow, red
at the pit, tender, very mild, vinous, juicy; quality good; pit very
small, nearly round, plump; season early September.

    =Radclyffe.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 55. 1876.

Obtained from a seed of Desse Tardive grown by Thomas Rivers,
Sawbridgeworth, England. Fruit very large, with a pale color and
excellent flavor; ripens the last of September.

    =Ragan Smock.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 94. 1881.

This variety is a seedling of Smock raised by Z. S. Ragan,
Independence, Missouri. The fruit has golden flesh, ripens late and is
a delicious, semi-clingstone peach.

    =Ragan Yellow.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 404. 1894.

Listed in this reference.

    =Rainbow.= =1.= _Can. Hort._ =24=:486 fig., 487. 1901.

Rainbow was raised from a peach-pit brought from Mackinac Island,
Michigan, in 1897 by David Sare, London, Ontario, Canada. Fruit large,
with an attractive straw-color, mottled with purplish-red; flesh
yellow, with pink markings, juicy, pleasant-flavored; stone nearly free.

    =Raisin.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:813. 1896. =2.= Munson
    _Cat._ 16. 1914-15.

According to T. V. Munson and Son, Denison, Texas, this peach is
supposed to be the result of a cross between Columbia and Heath Cling.
Fruit small, oval, with an acute apex; skin dull yellowish-white,
mottled with reddish-brown; flesh adherent, white, tinted with red,
with a subacid flavor; quality good; ripens the middle of August in
Texas.

    =Rambouillet.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 211. 1676. =2.= Miller _Gard.
    Dict._ 1752. =3.= Christ _Wörterb._ 355. 1802. =4.= Lindley
    _Guide Orch. Gard._ 268. 1831. =5.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:254.
    1879.

This variety was raised about 1670 near Paris, France, and evidently
was named in honor of Marquis de Rambouillet of Paris. It was
introduced into England in 1729 where it was grown for many years.
Fruit of medium size, elongated-oval, with a deep suture; skin pale
yellow, with a fine, red blush; flesh yellow, deep red at the pit which
is free, juicy, with a pleasant, vinous flavor; ripens the middle of
September.

    =Ramsey Early Cling.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 115. 1880.

Originated by A. M. Ramsey, Mahomet, Texas; the fruit is said to excel
Alexander.

    =Ramsey Late.= =1.= _Austin Nur. Cat._ 4. 1912.

According to F. T. Ramsey and Son, Austin, Texas, this peach originated
with Mr. Ramsey near Bowie, Texas. The tree is productive and the fruit
is a white clingstone resembling Heath Cling; the fruit ripens in
September.

    =Ranck.= =1.= _Ohio Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 51 fig. 1888-89.

This is a seedling of Early Crawford which originated with Martin A.
Ranck about 1886. Fruit of medium size, roundish-oblate; color pale
creamy-yellow, splashed and shaded with red; flesh free, nearly white,
slightly red at the pit, juicy, moderately firm, with a rich, high
flavor; ripens from the middle to the last of August.

    =Raymaekers.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:256, 257 fig. 1879.
    =2.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 457. 1884.

    _Raymaekers' Magdalene._ =3.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:199. 1858.

This peach was probably raised in Belgium about 1825. Fruit
large, roundish, somewhat depressed, with a distinct suture; skin
greenish-yellow, with a deep crimson blush; flesh greenish-white,
stained with red at the pit from which it separates, juicy, melting,
vinous; quality good; ripens early in September.

    =Raymond Cling.= =1.= _Horticulturist_ N. S. =7=:179. 1857.
    =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 28. 1873.

    _Ray._ =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 628. 1869.

This variety, grown by Dr. H. Ray, Yalobusha County, Mississippi, is a
seedling of an old Indian peach. In 1873, it was listed in the American
Pomological Society's fruit-catalog but was dropped in 1897. The
variety should not be confused with Ray, a sort of more recent origin.
Glands reniform; fruit of medium size, roundish, with a shallow suture;
apex pointed; skin creamy-white, shaded and spotted with red; flesh
white, juicy, vinous, well-flavored; ripens the last of August.

    =Read Seedling.= =1.= _Ohio Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 167 fig. 1886-87.

This variety was first brought to public notice in 1886 by Professor M.
C. Read, Hudson, Ohio. Fruit of medium size, with white, juicy flesh
which is red near the stone; quality good; stone free; season early
September.

    =Reagen.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:813, 814. 1896.

Fruit large; color greenish-white, with a red cheek; flavor pleasantly
acid; stone free; season the last of July in Texas.

    =Red Bird.= =1.= Bradley Bros. _Cat._ 31. 1913. =2.= Waugh _Am.
    Peach Orch._ 206. 1913.

According to Bradley Brothers, Makanda, Illinois, the tree of this
variety is hardy and bears early and abundantly; fruit large, with
bright, glowing red color and fine quality; ripens early.

    =Red Ceylon.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:99. 1892. =2.= _Glen
    St. Mary Nur. Cat._ 13. 1900.

Fruit large, with a dull green color; flesh blood-red to the stone
from which it separates freely, a little too acid for most palates but
excellent for cooking; of the Peento type and productive in southern
Florida.

    =Red Magdalen.= =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 100, Pl. 27 fig. =5.=
    1729. =2.= Brookshaw _Pom. Brit._ =1=:Pl. 26 fig. 3. 1817. =3.=
    Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 268, 269. 1831.

    _Madeleine Rouge._ =4.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:14, 15,
    Pl. VII. 1768. =5.= _Pom. France_ =6=:No. 7, Pl. 7. 1869.

    _Madeleine de Courson._ =6.= _Pom. Mag._ =1=:30, Pl. 1828. =7.=
    Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 262. 1831. =8.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._
    =6=:150, 151, fig. 152. 1879.

    _Coursoner Magdalene._ =9.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:196.
    1858.

    _Rothe Magdalene._ =10.= _Ibid._ =3=:196, 197. 1858.

    _Rote Magdalenenpfirsich._ =11.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 412. 1889.

This variety, probably known for over two centuries, has been confused
with several other old sorts and, as the numerous synonyms show, has
been grown under various names. Leaves doubly serrate, glandless;
flowers large; fruit of medium size, roundish, compressed, with a long,
deep suture; skin pale yellow, with a deep red blush; flesh white,
stained with red at the stone which is free, juicy, melting, vinous,
rich; quality good; ripens the first of September.

    =Red Nectarine.= =1.= _Gard. Chron._ 1466. 1873.

Mentioned as a hardy, free-bearing, Syrian variety.

    =Red Nutmeg.= =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 100. 1729. =2.= Lindley
    _Guide Orch. Gard._ 251. 1831. =3.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =1=:174.
    1831. =4.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 482. 1845.

    _Avant-Pêche Rouge._ =5.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:7, 8,
    Pl. III. 1768. =6.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:50, 51. 1879. =7.=
    Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:163, 164, fig. 18. 1883.

    _Scarlet Nutmeg._ =8.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 16. 1820.

    _Rothe Frühpfirsche von Troyes._ =9.= Liegel _Anweisung_ 68.
    1822.

    _Kleiner Rother Frühpfirsich._ =10.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:203, 204. 1858.

    _Rote Frühpfirsich._ =11.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 412. 1889.

Red Nutmeg, probably known more than two centuries ago, has little to
recommend it aside from its earliness. Tree moderate in growth, rather
dwarf, having large, rose-colored flowers and leaves with reniform
glands; fruit small, roundish, with a distinct suture; skin pale
yellow, with a bright, rich red cheek; flesh yellowish-white, usually
red at the stone which is free, juicy, sweet but with a musky flavor;
ripens from the middle to the last of July.

    =Red Peach.= =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 580. 1629.

"The red Peach is a faire Peach, and of a very good relish."

    =Red Rareripe.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 221. 1832. =2.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 485, 486. 1845. =3.= Fulton _Peach
    Cult._ 188. 1908.

    _Early Red Rareripe of Rhoades._ =4.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 220.
    1832.

    _Early Red Rareripe._ =5.= _Ibid._ 184. 1841.

This peach has often been confused with Early York and Morris Red
Rareripe. The fruit is larger and broader and ripens a week later
than the first and its serrate, glandless leaves serve to distinguish
it from the latter. Because of its similarity to Royal George, it is
supposed to be an American seedling of that variety. Leaves serrate,
glandless; flowers small; fruit large, roundish but broad and
depressed; suture broad, extending nearly around the fruit; skin white,
mottled with red dots, with a rich, dark red cheek; flesh white, red
at the stone, juicy, melting, rich, highly flavored; ripens from the
middle to the last of August.

    =Red River.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:99. 1892. =2.= _Tex.
    Sta. Bul._ =39=:814. 1896. =3.= _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta. Rpt._
    =7=:55. 1900. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 39. 1909.

Introduced by T. V. Munson and Son, Denison, Texas. Fruit large,
roundish; skin creamy-white, with a fine red cheek; flesh creamy-white,
juicy, fine-grained, with a pleasant flavor; quality good; pit nearly
free; ripens the first of August.

    =Red Seedling.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:37. 1895. =2.=
    _Ibid._ =169=:224. 1899.

Supposed to have originated at South Haven, Michigan. Fruit of medium
size, roundish, with a distinct suture; color creamy-white, with a
bright red blush; flesh creamy-white, slightly red at the pit from
which it separates, juicy, tender, with a mild, vinous flavor; season
from the middle to the last of August.

    =Redding.= =1.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:240, 241. 1898.

Originated at the Georgia Experiment Station, Experiment, Georgia.
Glands globose; fruit of medium size, roundish; color deep yellow, with
a red blush; flesh free, yellow, firm, juicy, melting; quality good;
ripens the first of July in Georgia.

    =Reed.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 43. 1895.

    _Reed Early Golden._ =2.= _Gard. Mon._ =26=:308. 1884.

Fruit large, roundish, with a shallow suture; skin yellow, blushed and
striped with red; flesh yellow, tinged with red at the stone which is
free, tender, mild subacid, rich; quality very good; ripens the last of
August.

    =Reeks.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 279. 1882.

Reeks ripens with Amsden and Alexander; is larger and fully as
attractive as these sorts.

    =Reeves Mammoth.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:89. 1896. =2.=
    _Glen St. Mary Nur. Cat._ 13. 1900.

This sort is said to have originated in Orange County, Florida. It is
advertised as a fine, large, productive, freestone peach, ripening
early in August.

    =Regan Pride.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 95. 1882.

Listed in this reference as a good variety.

    =Ren.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:814. 1896.

Tree vigorous but not productive; glands large, reniform; fruit of
medium size, round, with an acute point; color yellow, splashed with
red; flavor pleasant acid; stone clinging; ripens the last of June in
Texas.

    =Rendatler.= =1.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 81. 1867. =2.=
    Decaisne _Jard. Fruit._ =7=:Pl. 1872-75.

    _Belle Mousseuse._ =3.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 52, 216. 1876.

Fruit large, nearly round, with a distinct suture; skin pale yellow,
with an attractive, red blush; flesh yellowish-white, tinged with red
at the pit which is free, juicy, tender, sweet, with a pleasant flavor;
ripens in Paris the last of August.

    =Reuinsiela.= =1.= _Ariz. Sta. Bul._ =15=:62. 1895.

Listed in this reference.

    =Rey.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 412. 1889.

Mentioned in this reference.

    =Reynolds.= =1.= _Mo. State Fr. Sta. Bul._ =12=:10, 11, Pl. 8.
    1904.

Fruit large, more oblate than Elberta; skin yellow, with a red blush;
flesh yellow, of the texture of Elberta but juicier and better
flavored; season ten days earlier than Elberta.

    =Richardson Mammoth.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:99. 1892.

Listed as growing in the Delaware Station Experiment orchard on the
farm of Charles Wright, near Seaford, Delaware.

    =Richmond.= =1.= Tilton _Jour. Hort._ =8=:328, 329 fig. 1870.
    =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 1st App. 122. 1872. =3.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 30. 1877.

Richmond is one of a large number of seedlings raised by Dr. E. W.
Sylvester, Lyons, New York. It was placed upon the fruit-list of the
American Pomological Society in 1877 where it still remains. Glands
reniform; fruit medium to large, roundish, slightly compressed, with a
distinct suture; skin yellow, shaded and mottled with dark, rich red;
flesh yellow, red at the stone which is free, juicy, melting, sweet,
vinous; quality very good; ripens the last of September.

    =Rickets.= =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 106, Pl. XXXII fig. IV. 1729.

First propagated by a Mr. Rickets. Fruit light yellow, with a vermilion
blush; flesh white, red at the pit, juicy, melting, sweet; ripens the
last of August.

    =Riepper.= =1.= _N. Mex. Sta. Bul._ =30=:235. 1899.

Said to ripen in September in New Mexico.

    =Rigaudière.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:260, 261 fig. 1879.

Raised in 1863 by Auguste Boisselot, Nantes, Loire-Inférieure, France.
Fruit above medium in size, round, with a distinct suture; color clear
yellow, mottled and washed with dark red; flesh free, white, red at the
pit, juicy, with a sweet, aromatic flavor; ripens the first of August.

    =Ringold.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:814. 1896. =2.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:224, 1899. =3.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._
    =2=:354. 1903.

    _Ringold Mammoth Cling_. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 161. 1881.

Said to be taking the place of Heath Cling in Ohio and Michigan. Fruit
large, roundish, Somewhat ovate; skin creamy-white; flesh entirely
white, tender, rich, sprightly; quality good; clingstone; season early
October.

    =Rival.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Bul._ =62=:517. 1902.

Fruit roundish-oblong, flattened at the base and apex; color pale
yellow, washed with dull red; flesh free, yellow, red at the pit,
juicy, firm, with an agreeable, sweet, slightly acid flavor; season
July.

    =River Bank.= =1.= _Utah Sta. Bul._ =18=:14. 1892. =2.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:224. 1899. =3.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._
    =2=:354. 1903.

Tree vigorous and hardy; fruit large, roundish-oval, slightly
compressed; color greenish-yellow, with a dark red blush; flesh
yellowish-white, juicy, tender, mild; quality good; pit semi-free;
ripens the last of July.

    =Rivers Early York.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =34=:89. 1868. =2.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 630. 1869. =3.= _Jour. Hort. N. S._
    =17=:58. 1869. =4.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 458. 1884.

This variety is a seedling of Early York, raised many years ago by
Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England. It differs from its parent
chiefly in having globose glands on its leaves. Tree not as susceptible
to mildew as is Early York; fruit of medium size roundish; skin marbled
with red; flesh melting, juicy, with a nectarine flavor; stone free;
quality good; season in England, early August.

    =Robena.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 209, Pl. IV. 1893. =2.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =143=:186. 1897.

Raised about 1887 by Dr. Thomas Taylor, Washington, D. C. Tree
productive; glands reniform; fruit large, roundish, with a long,
shallow suture; skin yellow, shaded with red and crimson; flesh free,
yellow, tinged with red at the pit, juicy, melting, mild subacid,
vinous; quality good; season early October.

    =Robert.= =1.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =11=:44. 1891. =2.= Ibid.
    =42=:241. 1898. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 39. 1909.

Glands large, globose; fruit large, roundish, with a lemon-yellow
color; flesh semi-clinging, white but red at the pit, juicy, with a
rich, vinous flavor; ripens early in August.

    =Robert Lavallée.= =1.= _Guide Prat._ 41. 1895.

Fruit large, oval; color deep red in the sun; flesh yellowish-white,
red around the pit which is nearly free, juicy, sweet, with a vinous
flavor; ripens the middle of September.

    =Roberta.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 392. 1891.

Fruit of medium size, roundish; color reddish-yellow, washed with dark
red; flesh free, reddish-yellow, with a rich, vinous flavor; ripens
from the first to the middle of August.

    =Robertson.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 412. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Robinson Crusoe.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 228. 1832. =2.=
    Bridgeman _Gard. Ass't._ Pt. =3=:108. 1857.

    _Early Robinson Crusoe._ =3.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 184. 1841.

This peach was raised long ago by a Dr. Coxe, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, from a pit brought from Juan Fernandez Island in the
Pacific Ocean. Fruit large, round; skin pale yellow, with a light red
blush; flesh very juicy, sweet and delicious; ripens early in September.

    =Rockey.= =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =63=:130, fig. 59. 1904.

Introduced by J. W. Rockey, Miamisburg, Ohio. Fruit large, roundish;
color yellow, with a blush; flesh yellow, sweet, free; ripens in
southern Ohio about the middle of October.

    =Rodgers.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 290, 291. 1893.

Said to have come from W. C. Rodgers, Nashville, Arkansas. Fruit below
medium in size, oblong, pointed, irregular; skin dull yellowish-white,
striped and blushed with red; flesh adherent, dull yellowish-white,
with some red at the stone, firm, mild, sweet; quality good; season the
middle of November in Arkansas.

    =Rodman Red.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 196. 1841. =2.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 630. 1869.

    _Rodman's Cling._ =3.= Hooper _W. Fr. Book_ 229. 1857.

Fruit large, roundish-oblong; skin almost white, nearly covered with
red; flesh white, red near the pit, juicy, firm, with a vinous,
aromatic flavor; season the last of September.

    =Rogers I.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =19=:115. 1877.

This peach, which originated in Newbury, Massachusetts, is supposed to
be a seedling of Early Crawford. It resembles its parent but is earlier
and sweeter; ripens the middle of September.

    =Rogers II.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:107. 1901.

This variety is a seedling of Chinese Cling, having originated with
a Mr. Rogers, near McKinney, Texas. Fruit of medium size, round;
color creamy-white, with a full red cheek; flesh free, white, tender,
melting, mild subacid; good; ripens just before Mamie Ross.

    =Roman.= =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 582. 1629. =2.= Rea _Flora_
    211. 1676.

Said to be a very good, yellow peach.

    =Romorantin.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:261, 262 fig. 1879.

    _Jaune de Romorantin._ =2.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 62. 1867.

As its name indicates, this variety originated in Romorantin,
Loir-et-Cher, France. Fruit medium to large, roundish, with unequal
sides and a distinct suture; skin greenish-yellow, shaded with dark
red; flesh white, red at the pit, very juicy, vinous, sweet; quality
good; stone free; season the middle of September.

    =Romorantin à Chair Rouge.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186. 1883.

Listed in this reference without description.

    =Ronde de Vallabrêques.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 103. 1831.

Listed in this reference.

    =Rose Aromatic.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 630. 1869.

Originated with J. F. Nesmith, Indian Town, South Carolina. Fruit of
medium size, oblong, one side enlarged; suture distinct; skin yellow,
washed with red; flesh white, red near the pit which is free, rather
dry, with an aromatic flavor; season the last of July.

    =Rosebank.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 279. 1854. =2.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 625. 1857.

Originated with James Dougall, Windsor, Canada. Fruit large, round,
with a deep suture; skin greenish-white, with a mottled, dark red
cheek; flesh free, white, juicy, melting, rich, excellent; season
varies from the last of August to early September.

    =Rosedale.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:816. 1896.

Originated in southern Texas. A small, yellow, subacid, clingstone
peach, ripening the last of August.

    =Rosen-Magdalene.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:200.
    1858.

Fruit of medium size, roundish, with a shallow suture; skin
greenish-yellow, rarely tinged with red; flesh firm, moderately juicy;
ripens the last of September.

    =Rosenburg Cling.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 315. 1889.

This large, yellow, clingstone peach originated on Kings River, Fresno
County, California. It is said to be productive and superior to Lemon
Cling.

    =Roser.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 179. 1886. =2.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:224. 1899.

Fruit of medium size, roundish, inclining to ovate; skin creamy-white;
flesh free, white, juicy, tender, sprightly; quality fair; season early
October.

    =Roseville.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:225. 1899.

    _Roseville Cling._ =2.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 315. 1889.

Originated in Placer County, California. Fruit large, roundish-oval;
color creamy-white; flesh adherent, creamy-white, red at the pit,
juicy, firm, vinous, rich; quality good; season the last of September.

    =Rossanna.= =1.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ 1752. =2.= Duhamel
    _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:11, Pl. VI. 1768. =3.= Forsyth _Treat.
    Fr. Trees_ 29. 1803. =4.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 269. 1831.

    _Rozanna._ =5.= Langley _Pomona_ 101, Pl. XXVII fig. 111. 1729.

    _Roussaine._ =6.= Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:88. 1771.

    _Alberge-Aprikosenpfirsich._ =7.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:217, 218. 1858.

Rossanna, though called Alberge by several writers, is a distinct
variety. Tree a medium grower, very productive; flowers small, pale,
dull red; leaves crenate; glands reniform; fruit of medium size,
roundish, slightly larger and more flattened than Alberge; suture
prominent; apex terminating in a short nipple; skin yellow, almost
entirely overlaid with deep purple; flesh deep yellow, red at the pit,
firm, often mealy, sweet, vinous; stone small, free; ripens the middle
of September.

    =Round Transparent.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =1=:188. 1832.

This peach is distinct from Grosse Mignonne although very similar in
most characters. The chief differences between the two are that this
sort has reniform glands and smaller fruit. The variety was introduced
to America from France about 1825 by William Robert Prince, Flushing,
New York.

    =Roussane Berthelane.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:265, 266
    fig. 1879.

Fruit large, roundish-oval, with a pronounced suture; skin clear
greenish-yellow, with a dark red blush; flesh white, very juicy,
tender, sweet, with a pleasant flavor; stone free; season the middle of
September.

    =Roussanne Nouvelle.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:180. 1883.

Fruit very large, round; skin very pubescent, deep red; flesh white,
free; ripens the last of August.

    =Royal Charlotte.= =1.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 16. 1820.
    =2.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 103. 1831.

    _New Royal Charlotte._ =3.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 265.
    1831.

    _Mittelgrossblühende Magdalene._ =4.= Dochnahl _Führ.
    Obstkunde_ =3=:197. 1858.

    _Madeleine à moyennes fleurs._ =5.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:151,
    152, fig. 74. 1866-73.

    _Madeleine Hâtive._ =6.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:152, 153 fig.,
    154. 1879.

This English peach originated in Kew Gardens and at first was known as
Kew. Leaves doubly serrate, glandless; flowers of medium size, dark
red; fruit above medium in size, ovate; skin pale greenish-white, with
a deep red, marbled cheek; flesh white, stained at the pit, melting,
juicy; stone ovoid, free; ripens early in September.

    =Royal George.= =1.= Christ _Wörterb._ 356. 1802. =2.= _Pom.
    Mag._ =3=:119, Pl. 1830. =3.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 270.
    1831. =4.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =1=:179, 180. 1831. =5.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 485. 1845. =6.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 459, 460.
    1884. =7.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:121, 122. fig. 59. 1866-73.

    _Millet's Mignonne._ =8.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 262, 263.
    1831.

    _Königliche Magdalene._ =9.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:197. 1858.

    _König Georgs Pfirsich._ =10.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 402. 1889.

It is very doubtful if the variety here described as Royal George is
the original variety. According to Hogg the first mention of Royal
George is by Switzer who said, in 1724, that it was raised by a Mr.
Oram, Brompton Lane, England. At this time George the First was on the
throne and, no doubt, the peach was named for him. The variety became
popular but was difficult to propagate since it united with peach
stocks very poorly. Hence, nurserymen substituted Millet's Mignonne, a
new sort at that time which had been introduced by a Mr. Millet, North
End, Fulham, England. The original Royal George was probably a seedling
of Grosse Mignonne and but little different from that variety in many
characters. The long list of synonyms given Royal George by writers
attests the length of time this name has been extant and the confusion
surrounding its identity. Flowers small; leaves serrate, without
glands; fruit large, round, somewhat depressed, with a moderately deep
suture; skin very pale yellowish-white, sprinkled with many red dots
and marbled with deep red; flesh pale yellowish-white, very red at the
stone from which it separates, very juicy, melting, rich and highly
flavored; usually ripens the first of September.

    =Royal George Clingstone.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:20. 1832.

Differs from Royal George by being more oblong in shape and having
flesh adherent to the stone.

    =Royal George Mignonne.= =1.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 270,
    271. 1831.

According to Lindley, this variety is reported to have been raised from
seed by a friend of a Mr. Ronalds, Brentford, England. Although it
closely resembles Royal George, Lindley says they are distinct.

    =Royal Vineyard.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 53. 1876.

An English variety, ripening a week before Barrington; glands reniform.

    =Royale.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 212. 1676. =2.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb.
    Fr._ =2=:35, 36, Pl. 24. 1768. =3.= Leroy _Dict Pom._ =6=:267
    fig., 268. 1879.

    _Late Admirable._ =4.= Langley _Pomona_ 106, Pl. 32, fig. 5.
    1729. =5.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 260, 261. 1831. =6.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 28. 1873.

    _Könglecher Lackpfirsich._ =7.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:209. 1858.

Royale is an old French sort which originated about 1644 near
Port-Royal-des-Champs, France. It resembles Admirable of which it is
a seedling and has been confused more or less with Belle de Vitry,
Bourdine and Teton de Venus, all of which are listed separately in this
text. In 1873 there appeared a Late Admirable in the fruit-list of the
American Pomological Society which is identical with Royale. Leaves
crenate, with globose glands; flowers small, pale red; fruit large,
roundish, inclining to oval; suture deep; apex with a small, pointed
nipple; skin pale greenish-yellow, marbled and streaked with dark red;
flesh whitish, stained at the pit, melting, juicy; freestone; ripens at
the end of September.

    =Royale de Barsac.= =1.= Baltet _Cult. Fr._ 237. 1908.

Listed in this reference.

    =Rüdiger Starhemberg.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:205.
    1858.

A seedling of Karl Schwarzenberg which it closely resembles; ripens at
the end of September.

    =Ruding Late.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 460. 1883.

Glands reniform; flowers small; fruit large, roundish-conic; skin
white, with a red blush; freestone; quality good; season the middle of
September.

    =Rumbullion.= =1.= Brookshaw _Pom. Brit._ =1=:Pl. 27 fig. 2.
    1817. =2.= Brookshaw _Hort. Reposit._ =2=:99, Pl. 53. 1823.

    _Rumbolion._ =3.= Langley _Pomona_ 106. 1729.

Fruit large, light yellow, with a red blush; flesh yellow, light red at
the pit, juicy, with a rich, vinous flavor; ripens early in September.

    =Runde Feine Durchsichtige.= =1.= Liegel _Anweisung_ 69. 1822.

Fruit yellowish-white, blushed with attractive red; flesh white, red at
the pit, sweet but with a slight subacid flavor.

    =Runyon Orange Cling.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 314. 1889.

Said to have originated with a Mr. Runyon on the Sacramento River,
California, and to surpass Orange Cling. Glands globose; fruit very
large, yellow, with a dark crimson cheek; flesh rich, sweet, with a
vinous flavor.

    =Rupley.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:817. 1896.

Said to have been originated by T. V. Munson, Denison, Texas. Tree
vigorous, productive; glands globose; fruit small, oval, with a light
orange color; flavor fair; clingstone; ripens the middle of July in
Texas.

    =Russell.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 291. 1893. =2.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 34. 1899. =3.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:355
    fig. 1903. =4.= _U. S. D. A. Yearbook_ 429, Pl. LIII. 1911.

    _Russet No. 1._ =5.= _Gard. & For._ =8=:349. 1895.

J. M. Russell, Wymore, Nebraska, grew Russell from a stone of Chili
which may have been fertilized by Alexander. The variety first fruited
in 1893. In 1899, it was added to the fruit-list of the American
Pomological Society. Fruit large, roundish-oblong; color creamy-white,
shaded and washed with crimson; flesh greenish-white, with yellow
veins, red at the pit, juicy, very melting, mild subacid, rich; quality
very good; stone free; season in Nebraska a month later than Alexander.

    =Russell No. 3.= =1.= _Neb. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 277. 1901.

Listed as a promising seedling in Nebraska.

    =Russet.= =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 580. 1629.

"The russet Peach is one of the most ordinary Peaches in the Kingdome,
being of a russet colour on the outside, and but of a reasonable
rellish, farre meaner then many other."

    =Russian.= =1.= _Col. O. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =IV=:No. 4, 76. 1889.

Flowers small; fruit small, round, with a white skin; flesh white, of
good quality; ripens the middle of August.

    =Rutter.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:814. 1896.

Listed as a small, late, worthless variety.

    =S. G. French.= =1.= _N. Mex. Sta. Bul._ =30=:224. 1899.

Said to ripen about the middle of July in New Mexico.

    =Saint-Barthélemy.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:133, 134, fig. 3.
    1883.

This peach is a chance seedling found by the Barthère Brothers in a
garden at Toulouse, Haute Garonne, France. Fruit large, roundish-oval;
skin greenish-yellow, marbled, with dark brownish-red; flesh yellow,
streaked with dark red around the pit, juicy, sweet, aromatic; quality
good; season the last of August.

    =Saint Catherine.= =1.= _Pa. Fr. Gr. Assoc. Rpt._ 586. 1878.

Listed in this reference.

    =St. Clair.= =1.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =170=:180. 1906.

Fruit medium to large, round, irregular; color greenish-white, shaded
with red; flesh greenish-white, red at the pit which is free, firm,
moderately juicy; quality good; ripens the middle of September.

    =Saint Fagus.= =1.= _Lond. Hort Soc. Cat._ 104. 1831.

Listed in this reference.

    =St. Helena.= =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 21. 1877.

This is a seedling of Chinese Cling and is said to be of good size and
excellent quality.

    =Saint James.= =1.= Parkinson _Par. Tex._ 580. 1629.

Thought by Parkinson to be the same as the Queenes peach.

    =St. Joseph Yellow Rareripe.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 227,
    229. 1874.

Grown by a Mr. Pike of Royalton, Michigan, and once considered valuable
in that section.

    =St. Louis.= =1.= _U. S. Pat. Off. Rpt._ 257. 1854. =2.= Hooper
    _W. Fr. Book_ 230. 1857.

A large, yellow, native peach.

    =Saint Marie.= =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =15=:290. 1897.

Listed in this reference.

    =St. Mary.= =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 21. 1877.

This is a seedling of Chinese Cling and is said to be of excellent
quality.

    =St. Michael.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 200. 1841. =2.=
    _Horticulturist_ N. S. =7=:178. 1857. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
    409. 1889.

Glands reniform; fruit very large, round; skin bright yellow, striped
and marbled with dull red; flesh yellow, streaked with red near the
apex but not at the stone, sweet, juicy; quality very good; clingstone;
season early September.

    =Sallie Worrell.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =20=:311. 1878. =2.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 3rd App. 171, 172. 1881.

    _Worrell._ =3.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:359. 1903.

This peach was raised from seed by Mrs. Sallie Worrell, Wilson, North
Carolina; introduced by C. W. Westbrook of the same place. Tree
vigorous, productive, bearing glandless, serrate leaves; fruit large,
roundish, with one side enlarged; suture shallow but distinct; skin
creamy-white, shaded and mottled with light red; flesh free, white,
red at the pit, juicy, melting, slightly vinous; of excellent quality;
ripens the last of September.

    =Sallville.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Sanders.= =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 16. 1878. =2.= _Tex. Sta.
    Bul._ =39=:806. 1896.

    _Saunders._ =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 151. 1881.

Fruit small, ovate, with an acute apex; color creamy-white; flesh
yellowish-green, adherent, with a peculiar, vinous flavor; season the
first of August in Texas.

    =Sangmel.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:819. 1896. =2.= _Glen St.
    Mary Nur. Cat._ 13. 1900.

Sangmel is a seedling of Honey introduced by G. L. Taber, Glen Saint
Mary, Florida, about 1892. Fruit above medium in size, roundish-oblong,
pointed; skin white, overspread with red; flesh streaked with red;
clingstone; ripens the last of June in the South.

    =Sanguine.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:272, 273 fig., 274.
    1879.

    _Cardinale._ =2.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 95. 1831. =3.=
    Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:194. 1858.

    _Cardinal de Furstemberg._ =4.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:185. 1883.

Sanguine made its appearance in France early in the Seventeenth
Century, being first described by Claude Sainte-Etienne. The Chartreux
Monks, about 1704, gave this variety the name Cardinal de Furstemberg.
Unfortunately this name was also given to Cardinale causing much
confusion. Sanguine differs from the Sanguinole in ripening earlier and
in having smaller flowers. Glands reniform; flowers of medium size,
intensely rose-colored; fruit large, roundish-oblate, faintly sutured;
skin orange-yellow, nearly entirely overlaid with deep carmine; flesh
firm, fibrous, flesh-colored, with deeper streaks of red, juicy, rather
acid; stone plump, ovoid, free; ripens early in September or the last
of August.

    =Sanguine de Jouy.= =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:95, 96, fig. 46.
    1866-73.

    _Pêche de Vigne._ =2.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:299. 1879.

This is an old seedling found in a vineyard at Jouy-aux-Orches near
Metz, France. Leaves devoid of glands; flowers small; fruit medium
in size, ovoid, faintly mamelon at the apex; flesh marbled with red,
melting, sugary; quality good; stone free, small; ripens from the
middle to the end of September.

    =Sanguine de Manosque.= =1.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 65, 66.
    1867.

Sanguine de Manosque drew its name from the locality of the same name
in Basses-Alpes, France, where Carrière believed it to have originated.
He described it as having large flowers; glands globose; fruit large,
roundish-oblong; skin streaked with violet; flesh red, melting, juicy;
stone large, russet, obovate, free; ripens in August.

    =Sanguinole.= =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:43. 1768. =2.=
    Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:275, 276 fig., 277. 1879.

    _Bloody Monsieur._ =3.= Rea _Flora_ 211. 1676.

    _Bloody._ =4.= Langley _Pomona_ 107, Pl. 72 fig. 6. 1729.

    _Scarlet._ =5.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 230. 1817.

    _French Blood._ =6.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =1=:198, 199. 1831.

    _Gemeiner Blutpfirsich._ =7.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:193. 1858.

    _Sanguinolente._ =8.= Noisette _Man. Comp. Jard._ =2=:477. 1860.

    _Gewöhnliche Blutpfirsich._ =9.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 397. 1889.

This beet-red peach is very similar to Sanguine. It is needless to say
that the two have been much confused. It was first described as Pêche
Beterave by Friar Triquel in 1659. Glands small, reniform; flowers
large; fruit roundish, more or less elongated; skin thick, adhering to
the pulp; flesh dark red, rather dry, bitter, not very agreeable; stone
free, small, ovoid; ripens early in October.

    =Sanguinole Melting.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 104. 1831.

Glands reniform; flowers large; fruit large; flesh melting, of second
quality; matures the last of September.

    =Sanguinole Pitmaston.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 104. 1831.

Leaves with reniform glands; flowers large; fruit small, dark red;
flesh melting; ripens at the end of September.

    =Sargent.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 223, 224. 1832.

    _Sargent's Rareripe._ =2.= Prince _Treat. Hort._ 18. 1828. =3.=
    Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:26. 1832.

Sargent originated with Daniel Sargent, Boston, Massachusetts. Fruit
medium in size, round; color pale yellow, tinged with a red blush;
flesh yellow, juicy, sweet, excellent; ripens the first of September.

    =Savoy.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 210. 1676.

    _Early Savoy._ =2.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =3=:370. 1862. =3.=
    Hogg _Fruit Man._ 220. 1866.

This is a large, early peach, having a deep red blush and fine, melting
flesh.

    =Sawyer.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 46. 1897.

A variety grown by W. N. Blackington, Denmark, Iowa. Fruit large,
roundish; color golden yellow, blushed and splashed with red; flesh
yellow, red at the pit which is free, mild subacid; quality very good;
season the middle of September.

    =Scarlet Admirable.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 93. 1831.

Listed in this reference.

    =Scarlet Anne.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 104. 1831.

Said to have small leaves and large flowers.

    =Scheuster Choice.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:99. 1892.

Listed in this reference.

    =Schieski.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 413. 1889.

Mentioned by Mathieu.

    =Schley.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 170. 1899.

This is a productive, yellow, freestone peach of very good quality,
ripening ten days earlier than Elberta.

    =Schlomer Early.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:67.
    1900.

Tree medium in growth.

    =Schlössers Frühpfirsich.= =1.= Lucas _Handb. Obst._ 3rd Ed.
    475. 1893.

Fruit large, roundish, with a red blush; flesh tender and of good
quality; ripens from July to August.

    =Schmidberger Pfirsich.= =1.= Lauche _Deut. Pom._ =VI=:No. 19,
    Pl. 1882.

    _Schmidberger's Magdalene._ =2.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:199. 1858.

Fruit large, roundish, compressed at the base and apex; skin
yellowish-white, dotted and mottled with dull red; flesh white, stained
red at the pit, tender, juicy, with a delicate, aromatic flavor; season
the last of August.

    =Schofields Seedling.= =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =9=:347. 1890.

Planted for trial at this Station in 1890.

    =Schofields White.= =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =9=:347. 1890.

Placed in the orchard of this Station for testing in 1890.

    =Schöne Pavie.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 414. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Schöne von Vilvorde.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186. 1883.

Mentioned without a description.

    =Schöne Wächterin.= =1.= Liegel _Anweisung_ 70. 1822. =2.=
    Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:210. 1858.

Fruit large, purplish-red, with much reddish-black in the sun; flesh
whitish-yellow, pink at the stone and often under the skin, with a
pleasant, musky flavor; ripens the last of August.

    =Schöne von Westland.= =1.= Koch _Deut. Obst._ 540. 1876.

    _Schöne aus Westland._ =2.= Lauche _Deut. Pom._ =VI=:No. 25,
    Pl. 1882.

Fruit large, roundish; skin dull yellowish-white, with a red blush;
flesh whitish-yellow, with red at the pit, very tender, sweet; quality
good; season September.

    =Schöner Peruanischer Lackpfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ.
    Obstkunde_ =3=:213. 1858.

Fruit large, roundish-oval; skin yellow, with a deep red blush; flesh
yellow, tender, good; season the first of September.

    =Scott.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:225. 1899. =2.= _Mich.
    Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:61. 1910.

Alexander Hamilton, Allegan County, Michigan, introduced this
variety. Leaves bear globose glands; flowers small; fruit large,
yellow-fleshed, separating from the pit; ripens late.

    =Scott October.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 632. 1869. =2.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 28. 1873.

    _Scott Cling?_ =3.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:99. 1892.

    _Scott._ =4.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:814. 1896.

This sort originated with Jacob C. Lyons, Columbia, South Carolina. It
is a pale yellow clingstone, ripening very late.

    =Scotts Early Red.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 487. 1845.

Downing reports the peach of this variety excellent and the tree a
prolific bearer; from New Jersey. Leaves with obscure, globose glands;
flowers small; fruit of medium size, roundish; suture distinct; skin
pale greenish-white, mottled with red; flesh very juicy, rich; ripens
the middle of August.

    =Scotts Magnate.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 626. 1857.

A variety of Red Rareripe; glands reniform; fruit very large, round,
depressed; skin pale yellow, with a dark red cheek; flesh white,
luscious and well-flavored; ripens early in September.

    =Scotts Nectar.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 626. 1857.

Another seedling from Red Rareripe; glands globose; fruit large,
pale yellow, with a bright red cheek; flesh white; matures early in
September.

    =Scruggs.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:99. 1892. =2.= _Tex. Sta.
    Bul._ =39=:814. 1896.

Scruggs originated with J. W. Stubenrauch, Mexia, Texas, and later
was introduced by T. V. Munson, Denison, Texas. Fruit medium in size,
ovate; skin yellow, with a small, red blush; flesh light yellow,
moderately tender and juicy, flavor insipid; stone semi-clinging;
season late.

    =Sea Eagle.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =23=:211. 1881. =2.= _Flor. &
    Pom._ 152. 1882. =3.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 460. 1884.

    _Aigle de Mer._ =4.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 54, 215. 1876.

Sea Eagle was raised by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, from
a seed of Early Silver. Fruit large, round and regular in shape,
with a slight suture; skin pale lemon-yellow, with a deep red blush;
flesh free, pale yellowish-white, stained with deep red next the
stone, juicy, melting, with a rich, vinous flavor; ripens the last of
September.

    =Seiders.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:107. 1901.

This is a seedling of Thurber which originated with F. T. Ramsey,
Austin, Texas. It is a medium-sized, round, yellow clingstone, ripening
the middle of July.

    =Selby Cling.= =1.= Bridgeman _Gard. Ass't_ _Pt. 3_:110. 1857.

Fruit large; skin white, with a red blush; flesh melting, juicy, with a
peculiar, rich flavor; ripens the last of September.

    =Sellers Cling.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:99. 1892.

    _Sellers' Golden Cling._ =2.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 314. 1889.

This variety originated on the farm of S. A. Sellers, Contra Costa
County, California. It is a very large, rich, clingstone, with golden
color, ripening with Late Crawford.

    =Sellers Free.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 141. 1883.

Said to be desirable along the California coast.

    =Semis de Madeleine.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Semis de Pêche d'Egypte.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186. 1883.

Mentioned by Mas without a description.

    =Semis de Plowden.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 414. 1889.

Mentioned by Mathieu.

    =Sener.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:31. 1895. =2.= _Ibid._
    =169=:225. 1899.

This is an unproductive, Michigan variety. Fruit large, nearly round
or obscurely ovate; color yellow, blushed and marbled with red; flesh
yellow, red at the pit, very juicy, tender, with a mild, vinous flavor;
stone free; season the middle of September.

    =Sernach.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:35. 1832.

    _Pêche de Sernach._ =2.= _Mag. Hort._ =1=:149. 1835.

Probably originated at Tarascon, Bouches du Rhône, France. Fruit medium
in size, oval; skin yellowish-white, with a bright red blush; flesh
free, pale yellowish-white, with some red at the pit, juicy, rich,
pleasant; ripens early in September.

    =Serrate Ispahan.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 185. 1858.

Listed in this reference.

    =Shannon Cling.= =1.= Johnson _Cat._ 1894.

According to J. R. Johnson, Coshocton, Ohio, this peach originated in
Coshocton County. It is a large, attractive, yellow clingstone of good
quality, ripening the last of September.

    =Sharpe Nos. 1, 2 and 3.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 115.
    1880.

These three seedlings were raised by a Mr. Sharpe, Wooster, Ohio, and
all are said to excel Alexander.

    =Shaw Mammoth.= =1.= _Va. Sta. Bul._ =2=:9. 1889.

Growing in the Virginia Station orchard in 1889.

    =Sheester.= =1.= _Okla. Sta. Bul._ =2=:15. 1892.

Listed in this reference.

    =Shelby.= =1.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =11=:44. 1891.

Mentioned in this reference.

    =Shepherd Early.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 154. 1883.

Mentioned in this reference as an excellent freestone.

    =Sherfey Early.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 115. 1880.

This variety was raised by Raphael Sherfey, Gettysburg, Pennsylvania,
who recommends it.

    =Sherman October.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 313. 1889.

Said to have originated in Maryland. Tree vigorous, productive;
fruit large; skin white, without a blush; quality good; valuable for
shipping; season the middle of October.

    =Shinn Rareripe.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 312. 1889.

Originated with James Shinn, Niles, California. Fruit large, with a
very dark red surface; flesh sweet, rich, white, red at the stone which
is free; quality good for market; ripens soon after Early Crawford.

    =Shipler.= =1.= J. S. Kerr _Cat._ =4.= 1898. =2.= _Del. Sta.
    Rpt._ =13=:107. 1901.

This variety is a seedling of Chinese Cling originated by A. L.
Shipler, Denison, Texas. It is described as a yellow clingstone,
resembling Elberta and ripening in Texas about the middle of July.

    =Shipley.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:225. 1899.

    _Shipley's Late Red._ =2.= _Okla. Sta. Bul._ =2=:15. 1892. =3.=
    Fulton _Peach Cult._ 176. 1908.

Fruit medium to large, roundish-ovate, compressed; color pale yellow,
with a red cheek; flesh free, pale yellow, juicy, tender, with a
sprightly, vinous flavor; quality fair; season the middle of September.

    =Shipley Rareripe.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 166. 1895.

Fruit medium to large; flesh white, free; ripens early in August.

    =Shockley Early.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 28. 1873.

This variety appeared in the fruit-list of the American Pomological
Society from 1873 to 1897.

    =Shop.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 43, 44. 1895.

This peach grew near a building used as a shop by E. A. Riehl, Alton,
Illinois. Fruit large, roundish; color creamy-white, with a slight
blush; flesh white, with yellow veins, stained red at the stone, juicy,
very tender, melting, sweet; quality good; stone free; season the
middle of September.

    =Siebolt.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 295. 1854.

Siebolt is a moderately large, freestone, greenish-yellow peach with a
red blush, which has yellowish-white flesh and ripens in September.

    =Sieulle.= =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 232. 1866. =2.= Decaisne
    _Jard. Fruit._ =7=:Pl. 1872-75.

Fruit large, roundish, inclining to oval; skin coarsely pubescent,
greenish-yellow, with a dark red blush; flesh tender, juicy, rich;
yellowish-white, deeply stained with red at the pit which is free;
quality good; season the last of September.

    =Sill.= =1.= _Augustine Nur. Cat._ No. 43, 7. 1910.

According to Augustine and Company, nurserymen at Normal, Illinois,
Sill originated about 1904 with W. H. Sill, at Normal, as a seedling
of Elberta. The fruit resembles Elberta but is larger, a little higher
colored and ripens from a week to ten days later.

    =Silvan Seedling.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =13=:110. 1847.

Said to be an attractive peach of good quality.

    =Silver Medal.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 460. 1883. =2.=
    Fulton _Peach Cult._ 175, =176.= 1908.

Tree vigorous; fruit roundish-oblate; skin white, with an occasional
blush; flesh white, free and of good quality; season the last of
September.

    =Simms.= =1.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._ =156=:134. 1911.

Fruit medium in size, round; color yellow, splashed with red stripes;
flesh yellow, moderately juicy, subacid; quality good; freestone;
ripens the last of July in Alabama.

    =Simon.= =1.= _Neb. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 175. 1895.

Imported from China. Fruit round, flattened at the ends, of medium
size; skin dark red; flesh yellow, hard, with a bitter-almond flavor;
quality poor.

    =Sims.= =1.= Smith Bros. _Cat._ 14. 1913.

According to Smith Brothers, Concord, Georgia, this peach resembles
Columbia. The fruit is large with dark veins through its yellow flesh,
of fine quality and ripens early in August. Said to come true from seed.

    =Sites Old Zack.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 287. 1854.

    _Old Zack._ =2.= _Ohio Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 4. 1855.

Originated at Columbus, Ohio. Fruit nearly large; skin yellow, with a
dull red cheek; flesh yellow, juicy, separating freely from the stone;
season early September.

    =Skinner Superb.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 287. 1854.

This is a very good freestone peach which originated in the South,
where it ripens in early August:

    =Slane.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 211. 1676.

Listed as a large, good, yellow peach.

    =Slappey.= =1.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:356. 1903.
    =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 39. 1909. =3.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._
    =156=:134, 135. 1911.

Fruit medium in size, roundish, inclining to conic; color golden
yellow, shaded with red and crimson; flesh yellow, somewhat mealy,
sweet; quality good; pit free; ripens the last of June in Alabama.

    =Sleeper Dwarf.= =1.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =29=:554. 1875. =2.=
    _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 115. 1880.

This dwarf peach originated with W. M. Sleeper, Oxford, Indiana. Tree
dwarf and compact in habit of growth; fruit medium to large; skin
greenish-white, tinged with crimson; flesh juicy, sweet, rich; season
October.

    =Slindon Park.= =1.= _Gard. Chron._ 941. 1865. =2.= _Ibid._
    364. 1866.

A. Stewart, Slindon Park, England, raised this variety from a pit of
Late Admirable. It is a large, late, freestone peach, having very good
flavor.

    =Sloan Carolina.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:35. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Slocum Early.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 295. 1854.

Glands globose; fruit large; color yellow, shaded with red; flesh
yellow; ripens in August.

    =Small White Magdalen.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =1=:186. 1831.

    _Small White._ =2.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 580. 1629.

Fruit small; skin white, dotted with red; flesh white, melting, juicy,
sweet; season the middle of August.

    =Smeigh.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 46. 1897.

Raised by Daniel Smeigh, Lancaster, Pennsylvania. Fruit nearly large,
roundish-conic; skin white, washed and mottled with red; flesh
adherent, white, red at the pit, firm, compact, sweet, rich; season
very late.

    =Smith.= =1.= Ramsey _Cat._ 5. 1915.

According to F. T. Ramsey and Son, Austin, Texas, this variety
originated in Lampasas County, Texas, more than forty years ago. It is
said to be a regular and abundant bearer of deliciously sweet fruit.

    =Smith Favorite.= =1.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 195. 1849. =2.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 633. 1857.

Raised by Calvin Smith, Lincoln, Massachusetts. Glands reniform; fruit
large, roundish, with a deep suture; skin yellow, nearly covered with
deep, rich red; flesh yellow, juicy, sweet, rich, delicious; freestone;
season from the middle to the last of September.

    =Smith Indian.= =1.= Ramsey _Cat._ =4.= 1912.

According to F. T. Ramsey and Son, Austin, Texas, this is a seedling
which originated in Austin. It is a large, red-fleshed, juicy
clingstone ripening the last of July.

    =Smith Newington.= =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 101, Pl. 28 fig. 1.
    1729. =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 498. 1845.

    _Early Newington._ =3.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ 1752.

    _New York Early Newington._ =4.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 218.
    1817.

    _Weisser Härtling._ =5.= Liegel _Anweisung_ 72. 1822.

    _Härtlings Magdalene._ =6.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:200.
    1858.

    _Pavie Blanc_ (_Gros_). =7.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:213 fig.,
    214. 1879.

Smith Newington was never much grown in America but was at one time
widely grown in England as an early clingstone. Flowers large; leaves
serrate, without glands; fruit medium in size, oval; skin pale
straw-color, with a lively red blush; flesh firm, juicy, pale yellow,
stained red at the pit to which it adheres; of very good quality;
ripens the last of August.

    =Smithson.= =1.= _Ont. Fr. Gr. Assoc. Rpt._ 1st App. 37. 1901.

Listed in this reference.

    =Smooth-Leaved Royal George.= =1.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._
    271, 272. 1831. =2.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 224. 1832.

This peach seems to have originated with a Mr. Lee, Hammersmith,
England. Glands globose. Fruit large, nearly round, yellowish-white,
blushed with a beautiful, deep red on carmine; flesh yellowish-white,
deep red next the pit, melting, juicy, sweet, with a high, vinous
flavor; ripens early in September.

    =Smoothstone.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =13=:110. 1847.

Listed in this reference.

    =Smyrna.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 211. 1676.

Mentioned as a good, yellow peach.

    =Sneed.= =1.= _Gard. & For._ =6=:279. 1893. =2.= _U. S. D.
    A. Pom. Rpt._ 44. 1895. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 22. 1897.
    =4.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:226. 1899. =5.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._
    =13=:107, 108. 1901. =6.= _Rev. Hort._ 350, 594, 595, Pl. 1904.

Sneed originated about 1885 in the yard of Judge John L. T. Sneed,
Nashville, Tennessee, and is said to be a seedling of Family Favorite.
According to the references the variety has been grown in the southwest
under the names Peebles and Bowers. Sneed was added to the fruit-list
of the American Pomological Society in 1897. Tree vigorous, moderately
productive; fruit of medium size, roundish-oval, with a shallow suture;
color greenish-white, washed and mottled with bright red; flesh
greenish-white, often stained with red under the skin, juicy, tender,
melting, mild subacid, often slightly bitter; quality fair; stone
small, clinging; season the middle to the last of July.

    =Snow.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 224. 1832. =2.= Downing _Fr.
    Trees Am._ 486, 487. 1845. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 78. 1862.
    =4.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 426. 1897.

    _Neige._ =5.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 40, 221. 1876.

This unique peach is of American origin. The blossoms and the fruit are
white, without a trace of color, and the flesh is white to the stone.
Tree hardy, productive; glands reniform; flowers small, white; fruit
large, round, with a slight suture; skin thin, clear white; flesh white
to the pit, juicy, melting, rich, sprightly, free; ripens the first of
September.

    =Snow Cling.= =1.= _Horticulturist_ =7=:177. 1857.

    _Snow._ =2.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:817. 1896.

Fruit small, round, creamy-yellow, sweet, juicy, clingstone; glands
small, globose; ripens early.

    =Snow Favorite.= =1.= _Can. Hort._ =23=:381. 1900.

This peach originated in Syracuse, New York; it ripens with Early
Crawford. Fruit of large size and high color; flavor excellent and
quality good.

    =Snow Orange.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 114, 115, 321.
    1873. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 30. 1875. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Sp.
    Bul._ =44=:61, 62. 1910.

    _Snow._ =4.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:226. 1899. =5.=
    Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:356. 1903.

Snow Orange was introduced by L. P. Hall, Paw Paw, Michigan, more than
fifty years ago and is supposed to be a seedling which originated
upon the farm of a Mr. Snow of that place. Tree moderately vigorous
and productive; glands obscurely reniform; flowers small; fruit of
medium size, roundish-oval, compressed; suture distinct; apex slightly
pointed; color yellow, with a dull red cheek and slight mottlings of
red; flesh yellow, red at the pit, juicy, tender, sweet, sometimes with
a slight bitter taste; quality good; pit free, large, plump; ripens the
last of August.

    =Sobiesky Lieblingspfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:205. 1858.

Fruit roundish-oval; skin yellow, with a red blush; flesh white, sweet,
with a vinous flavor; ripens the last of August.

    =Solomon.= =1.= _Kan. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 195. 1902-03.

Listed in this reference.

    =Soulard Cling.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 122. 1854.

Mentioned as a very good, native peach.

    =Southern Early.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 314. 1889. =2.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:226. 1899.

Originated in South Carolina. Fruit of medium size, roundish,
compressed at the suture which is distinct; skin yellow, nearly covered
with dark red; flesh yellow, red at the pit, moderately firm, with a
pleasant, rich, sprightly flavor; quality good; stone free; season the
last of August.

    =Southwick.= =1.= Fulton _Peach Cult._ 175. 1908.

    _Southwick's Late._ =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 52. 1871. =3.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 1st App. 122. 1872.

Southwick is an accidental seedling found on the grounds of T. T.
Southwick, Dansville, New York. Fruit large, roundish, with a distinct
suture; skin yellowish-white, dotted and streaked with red; flesh
white, separating freely from the stone, very juicy, melting, with a
fine, delicate flavor; season the last of September.

    =Souvenir de Gérard Galopin.= =1.= _Guide Prat._ 42. 1895.

Tree vigorous, productive; glands globose; fruit very large, with a
purplish-black color; flesh juicy, good, yellow, red at the pit which
is free; ripens the first of September.

    =Souvenir de Java.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =20=:271. 1854. =2.= Mas
    _Le Verger_ =7=:149, 150, fig. 73. 1866-73.

    _Andenken an Java_. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 387. 1889.

This variety was raised in the vicinity of Liége, Belgium, about 1849
by Madam Brahy. It was so called by a M. Papeleu because of courtesies
shown him while in Java by Madam Brahy's father. Branches slender;
leaves with reniform glands; flowers small, rose-colored; fruit above
medium in size, globular, slightly depressed at the ends; cavity deep;
skin thin, separating from the flesh, whitish-yellow, purple where
exposed; flesh yellow, crimson at the pit, melting, vinous; stone
small, oval, slightly obovate, free; ripens the last of August.

    =Souvenir de Jean-Denis Couturier.= =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 108, 109.
    1891.

This peach was grown about 1856 by Jean-Denis Couturier at Montreuil,
Seine, France. Fruit large, roundish; skin yellowish-white, with a fine
red blush; flesh white, red at the pit from which it separates, juicy,
sweet, with a pleasant, aromatic flavor; ripens the last of August.

    =Souvenir de Jean Rey.= =1.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 63. 1867.

    _Andenken an Jean Rey_. =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 387. 1889.

This is a variety raised by Jean Rey, a nurseryman, Toulouse, France.
Leroy combines this variety with Schöne Toulouserin. Tree vigorous;
leaves with reniform glands; flowers small, rose-colored; fruit medium,
globular; suture shallow; skin strongly pubescent, pale yellow, deep
red where exposed; flesh yellow, melting, juicy, aromatic; stone
russet, obtuse, free; ripens early in September.

    =Spanish.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:32. 1832. =2.= Kenrick
    _Am. Orch._ 183. 1835.

    _Spanish Clingstone_. =3.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 17. 1820.

Fruit large, round; skin white, with a red blush; flesh adherent, very
juicy, sweet, vinous, excellent; ripens early in October.

    =Späte Mignot Pfirsich.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186. 1883.

    _Tardive des Mignots_. =2.= Carrière _Var. Pêchers_ 60. 1867.

Fruit large, roundish, depressed at the base; skin white, washed
with bright red; flesh free, white, red at the stone, juicy, sweet,
pleasant-flavored; season early in September.

    =Später Lackpfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:216.
    1858.

Fruit large, roundish, compressed at the ends; skin yellowish-white,
with some red; flesh yellow, red at the pit, juicy, moderately firm;
good; season late in October.

    =Spath Seedling.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:68.
    1900.

Said to be a tree of medium growth.

    =Spence.= =1.= Ramsey _Cat._ 10. 1909.

According to F. T. Ramsey and Son, Austin, Texas, this variety
originated in Austin. The fruit resembles that of Mamie Ross but is
larger and has a better flavor. The flesh is inclined to be mealy;
ripens the last of June in Texas.

    =Spottswood.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:99. 1892. =2.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:226. 1899. =3.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:108.
    1901.

This peach originated with the late Judge Campbell, Pensacola, Florida,
from a pit brought from Japan in 1860 by W. A. Spottswood, a Fleet
Surgeon in the United States Navy. P. J. Berckmans, Augusta, Georgia,
introduced the variety about 1868. Fruit medium in size, roundish,
inclining to oval; color creamy-white; flesh white, red at the pit
which is free, juicy, tender, mild, vinous; quality good; season early
in September.

    =Spring Grove.= =1.= _Pom. Mag._ =3=:97, Pl. 1830. =2.= Lindley
    _Guide Orch. Gard._ 272. 1831. =3.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:17,
    18. 1832. =4.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 232. 1866.

    _Schnellwachsender Lieblingspfirsich_. =5.= Dochnahl _Führ.
    Obstkunde_ =3=:206. 1858.

This peach was raised by T. A. Knight, Downton Castle, Wiltshire,
England, from a stone of Grosse Mignonne which had been fertilized
by Red Nutmeg. Leaves crenate, with globose glands; fruit medium in
size, round, with a shallow suture; color greenish-yellow, with a
bright crimson blush; flesh greenish-yellow to the stone from which
it separates, juicy, rich and pleasantly flavored; ripens the last of
August.

    =Squaw.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:817. 1896.

This is a small, inferior, yellow, freestone peach with small, reniform
glands, ripening in Texas the last of July.

    =Staley.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 318. 1889. =2.=
    Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:356. 1903.

Staley originated as a sucker from a peach-root in Selma, Fresno
County, California, and was introduced by F. M. Nevins of Selma. Fruit
very large, elongated, somewhat flattened laterally; color creamy-white
with touches of light red; flesh white, juicy, tender; quality very
good; pit free; season late in California.

    =Stanley.= =1.= Griffing Bros. _Cat._ 11 fig. 1900. =2.= _Fla.
    Sta. Bul._ =73=:151. 1904.

Stanley is a seedling of Honey which originated in the nursery of
Griffing Brothers, Macclenny, Florida. The variety is subject to
brown-rot and is a poor shipper. Fruit roundish-oblong, medium to
large; cavity deep, open; apex short, conical, nearly straight or a
mere point; skin thick, greenish-white, washed with deep red on the
sunny side; flesh white, rather soft, easily breaking down, sweet,
insipid, with a tinge of bitter around the stone; quality no more than
fair; stone clinging, oblong, plump; ripens the middle of June in
Florida.

    =Stanwick Early York.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =17=:365. 1875.

This is a productive variety but the fruit is small and not very
attractive and drops badly in dry weather.

    =Stark Early Elberta.= =1.= Stark Bros. _Cat._ 46, 47. 1914.

    _Goldfinch._ =2.= Barnes Bros. _Cat. 5._ 1913.

Stark Early Elberta was introduced by Stark Brothers, Louisiana,
Missouri. The variety first fruited with Dr. Sumner Gleason of
Kaysville, Utah. It is a seedling of Elberta and much like that variety
but is said to ripen about a week earlier and to be handsomer and of
better quality. On the grounds of this Station it seems to be identical
with Elberta.

    =Stark Heath.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 44. 1895. =2.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:226. 1899. =3.= Stark Bros. _Yearbook_
    71. 1910. =4.= _Ibid._ 52. 1916.

Stark Heath is said to be an improvement over Heath Cling. Fruit of
medium size, roundish, slightly oval; apex prominent; suture distinct;
color clear creamy-white, somewhat blushed; flesh creamy-white, juicy,
tender, melting, with a vinous flavor; quality good; stone clinging;
ripens a month after Elberta.

    =Steadley. 1.= _Horticulturist_ =28=:25. 1873. =2.= _Mich.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 460. 1883. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:226.
    1899. =4.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:356. 1903.

This variety is said to be a seedling of La Grange which it resembles.
Leaves with reniform glands; fruit large, roundish, inclining to ovate,
with a slight suture; skin creamy-white, washed with pink; flesh free,
white, very juicy, tender, with a mild sprightliness; quality good;
season from the middle to the last of September.

    =Stearns. 1.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:62. 1910.

This variety, which was introduced in 1906, originated with J. N.
Stearns, South Haven, Michigan. The fruit is about the size of Elberta
which it surpasses in quality and brilliancy of color. It is a perfect
freestone, with yellow flesh and ripens just after Elberta.

    =Steele. 1.= _Can. Hort._ =24=:418. 1901.

Originated with Dr. M. Steele, Tavistock, Perth County, Ontario. Tree
productive; fruit large, with an attractive, creamy skin and red cheek;
flesh white, tender, juicy; good; season the last of August.

    =Stenson October. 1.= _La. Sta. Bul._ =81=:31. 1905.

Undesirable in Louisiana.

    =Stephenson Cling. 1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 641, 642. 1857.
    =2.= _Horticulturist_ N. S. =7=:178. 1857.

This peach is supposed to be a seedling of Blood Cling grown by Thomas
Stephenson, Clark County, Georgia. Fruit large, roundish, with a
distinct suture; skin creamy-white, with a dark, dull, purplish-red
blush; flesh white, with tinges of red and deep red at the stone,
very tender, melting, juicy, with a pleasant, vinous flavor; ripens
September first.

    =Stetson. 1.= _Mag. Hort._ =13=:114. 1847. =2.= Hovey _Fr. Am._
    =1=:53, Pl. 1851. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 626. 1857.

This is an accidental seedling which sprang up in 1843 in the garden of
N. Stetson, Bridgewater, Massachusetts. Fruit large, roundish, with a
shallow suture; skin greenish-white, marbled and shaded with crimson;
flesh white, pink at the stone, very melting, juicy, brisk, rich; stone
free; ripens from the middle to the last of September.

    =Stevens Late. 1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =104=:90. 1894. =2.=
    _Ibid._ =169=:227. 1899.

    _Late Rareripe Stevens_. =3.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 25. 1876.
    =4.= _Ibid._ 15. 1878.

    _Stevenson's Oct._ =5.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._ =11=:10. 1890.

Stevens Late originated in Delaware or New Jersey. Tree strong; fruit
of medium size, roundish, with an indistinct suture; skin creamy-white,
with a bright, mottled blush; flesh pale creamy-white, with a little
red at the pit, moderately juicy, tender, with a sprightly, vinous
flavor; quality good; season early October.

    =Stewart Nos. 1 and 2. 1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =15=:290. 1897.

Listed in the reference; received at this Station from S. Richardson,
Richardson, Utah.

    =Stickler Cling. 1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 77. 1893.

Listed in this reference.

    =Stiles.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 291. 1893.

Stiles originated with Dr. E. P. Stiles, Austin, Texas, from a seed
brought from Virginia and planted in 1866. Fruit of medium size,
resembling Elberta in shape and color; flesh reddish-yellow, red at the
pit, melting, juicy, free; quality good; ripens the last of June in
Texas.

    =Stilson.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 314. 1889.

Originated in California. Fruit very large, having a red cheek, with
crimson stripes; flesh yellow, free; quality excellent; ripens after
Late Crawford.

    =Stinson.= =1.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._ =156=:135. 1911. =2.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 39. 1909.

    _Stinson Late._ =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 157. 1881. =4.= _U.
    S. D. A. Rpt._ 263. 1892.

    _Stinson October._ =5.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._ =47=:11. 1893.

Fruit large, broadly oval; color creamy-white, shaded with dark
purplish-red; flesh adherent, white, veined with red and red at the
pit, mild subacid; quality good; season late.

    =Stirling Castle.= =1.= _Gard. Chron._ 557. 1858. =2.= _Ibid._
    734. 1860. =3.= _Mag. Hort._ =28=:365. 1862. =4.= Thomas _Guide
    Prat._ 44. 1876.

Raised at Stirling Castle, England. Fruit large, roundish, with a
well-colored, brownish-red surface; flesh red near the pit, vinous,
aromatic; quality good; ripens early in September.

    =Stone.= =1.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =5=:318. 1893.

Said to be a yellow-fleshed peach common in the south of Europe.

    =Stonewall Jackson.= =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 21. 1877. =2.=
    _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:809. 1896. =3.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._
    207. 1913.

    _Stonewall._ =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 34. 1899. =5.= _Del.
    Sta. Rpt._ =13=:108. 1901.

    _General Jackson._ =6.= _S. C. Sta. Rpt._ =19=:16. 1906.

This peach may have originated in Texas as a seedling of Chinese Cling.
Some authorities, however, say that it originated with Judge Campbell,
Pensacola, Florida, from a peach-pit brought from Japan in 1860 by
William A. Spottswood, a Fleet Surgeon in the United States Navy. It is
supposed to have been introduced by P. J. Berckmans, Augusta, Georgia,
about 1868. Fruit of medium size, roundish-oblate, inclined to conic;
suture distinct; color creamy-yellow, with a faint crimson blush and
many red dots; flesh white, red at the pit, firm, juicy, rich, with a
pleasant, subacid flavor; stone large, clinging; season early.

    =Storm No. 1.= =1.= _Flor. & Pom._ 84. 1880.

This is a seedling raised by James A. Storm of Missouri, and said to be
a large, attractive, freestone peach, ripening just before Amsden.

    =Stranahan.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =44=:62. 1910.

    _Stranahan's Late Orange._ =2.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 189.
    1880.

Stranahan is a seedling raised in Michigan. Fruit very large, nearly
round; color deep yellow, with a red cheek; flesh golden yellow, firm,
free; quality good; season very late.

    =Strawberry.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 200. 1841. =2.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 487. 1845. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 32. 1877.

    _Rose._ =4.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 263. 1892.

Strawberry was introduced by Thomas Hancock, Burlington, New Jersey.
Fruit of medium size, roundish-oval; skin nearly all marbled with
dark red; flesh white, juicy, melting, rich, with a sprightly, vinous
flavor; ripens early in August.

    =Strong.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 44. 1895. =2.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:227. 1899.

Fruit medium to large, roundish; color creamy-white, with a bright
red cheek; flesh white, red at the pit from which it is free, tender,
melting, moderately juicy, mild subacid, vinous; quality good; ripens
from the middle to the last of August.

    =Strout Early.= =1.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:357. 1903.

Originated in Indian Territory and resembles Alexander. Fruit medium in
size, roundish, slightly compressed; flesh streaked with red, firm; of
good quality; stone free; ripens early.

    =Strunk.=

Trees of this peach were received at this Station for testing in 1913
from W. P. Strunk, Roodhouse, Illinois, who originated it from seed
in 1904. According to a statement of the originator, the trees are
productive and bear large, yellow, freestone fruit of good quality
which ripens the last of August.

    =Stuart.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 161. 1898.

Fruit medium in size; color greenish-yellow, with a red blush; flesh
clinging; quality good; season the last of July.

    =Studt.= =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 366. 1908.

This is a seedling with Persian blood which originated in Solon,
Johnson County, Iowa.

    =Sturtevant.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 290. 1852. =2.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 80. 1862.

Sturtevant was originated in 1826 by E. T. Sturtevant, Cleveland,
Ohio. The American Pomological Society listed the variety in its
fruit-catalog from 1862 until 1897. Fruit medium in size, roundish,
compressed; skin very pubescent, rich yellow, nearly covered with dark
red; flesh yellow, red at the pit, with veins of red running into the
flesh; quality very good; pit free; ripens the last of August.

    =Suber.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Bul._ =62=:517, 518. 1902. =2.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 39. 1909.

Suber was originated by a colored man of that name at Lake Helen,
Volusia County, Florida. Fruit large, roundish-oblong, with a shallow
suture; color creamy-yellow, with a pinkish-red blush; flesh white,
firm, meaty, sweet, vinous; quality good; clingstone; ripens early in
Florida.

    =Success.= =1.= _Mo. State Fr. Sta. Rpt._ =1=:11. 1901. =2.=
    Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:357. 1903. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 39. 1909.

Success probably originated in Texas. Fruit large, roundish, with a
yellow surface; flesh firm, juicy, rich; good; pit free.

    =Sulhamstead.= =1.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 252. 1831. =2.=
    Hogg _Fruit Man._ 232. 1866. =3.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:89, 90,
    fig. 43. 1866-73.

This variety originated about a century ago in the garden of a Mrs.
Thoytes, of Sulhamstead House, near Reading, Berkshire, England.
Leaves deeply serrate, glandless; fruit large, roundish; skin clear,
pale yellow, marbled with dark red; flesh pale yellow, melting, juicy,
sweet, with a rich, vinous flavor; pit free; ripens from the first to
the middle of September.

    =Sylphide.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:809. 1896. =2.= _Del.
    Sta. Rpt._ =13=:109. 1901.

    _Sylphide Cling._ =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 161. 1881.

Sylphide is a seedling of General Lee and originated in 1874 with Dr.
L. E. Berckmans, Augusta, Georgia. Tree vigorous, productive; fruit
medium to large, roundish-oblong, compressed, with a distinct suture;
color creamy-white, dotted with red; flesh adherent, white, red at the
pit, juicy, mild subacid; ripens the last of August.

    =Sumner Early.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 633, 634. 1869.

Fruit medium to large, with an attractive blush; flesh white, firm,
free; ripens early.

    =Sumner White Free.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 634. 1869.

Originated in South Carolina. Fruit large, nearly round, slightly
depressed, with unequal sides; suture distinct; skin whitish-green,
shaded with red; flesh white, juicy, sweet; ripens the first of
September.

    =Sunrise.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 25. 1904.

Sunrise originated with Miller Brothers, Paw Paw, West Virginia,
as a seedling of Heath Cling. Fruit large, roundish-oblong; color
creamy-white, with a red blush; flesh firm, very juicy, sweet; quality
good; clingstone; ripens very late.

    =Sunset.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:89. 1896.

Listed in this reference.

    =Superbe de Choisy.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 416. 1889. =2.=
    _Guide Prat._ 41. 1895.

Fruit very large; flesh juicy, sweet, agreeably aromatic, white, red at
the pit which is free; ripens the last of September.

    =Superbe de Trévoux.= =1.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 115 fig.
    1906.

Fruit large, with a distinct suture which divides the fruit into two
unequal faces; skin nearly covered with dark red; flesh juicy, sweet,
pleasantly flavored; quality good; ripens the last of August.

    =Superior Late.= =1.= _Country Gent._ =26=:256. 1865.

    _Scattergood No. 1._ =2.= _Trans. Am. Inst._ 211. 1865.

This is a seedling raised about sixty years ago by H. V. Scattergood,
Albany, New York. It is a large clingstone of good quality, ripening
early in October.

    =Surpasse Bon Ouvrier.= =1.= _Gard. Chron._ 3rd Ser. =1=:210.
    1887.

Fruit large, round, furrowed on one side; color deep scarlet in the
sun; flesh melting, sweet, yellowish-white, red at the pit which is
free; ripens the last of September.

    =Surprise.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:33. 1832.

Tree productive; fruit very large, with a dingy-red or purplish
surface; flesh deep yellow, with crimson veins running towards the
center; quality very good; freestone.

    =Surprise de Jodoigne.= =1.= _Ann. Pom. Belge_ =6=:91, 92, Pl.
    1858.

Fruit medium in size, roundish, flattened at the base; skin yellow,
mottled and dotted with red; flesh juicy, sweet, yellow, red at the pit
which is free; quality fair.

    =Surprise de Pellaine.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 41. 1876.
    =2.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:281, 282 fig. 1879.

Introduced about 1864 by Henri Delloyer, a Belgian. Leaves glandless;
fruit medium to large, roundish-oval, with a well-marked suture; skin
pale greenish-yellow, washed with dark red; flesh greenish-white, red
at the pit, juicy, sweet, aromatic; quality good; stone free; ripens
the last of September.

    =Sure Crop.= =1.= Lovett _Cat._ 24 fig. 1906.

Introduced by J. T. Lovett, Little Silver, New Jersey. Tree hardy,
productive; fruit large, nearly round; skin white, with a bright
carmine cheek; flesh very juicy, sweet, rich, sprightly; ripens early.

    =Surties.= =1.= Ramsey _Cat._ 1913.

According to F. T. Ramsey and Son, Austin, Texas, this variety was
originated by a Mr. Surties, Bexar County, Texas. The fruit resembles
Honey but is less pointed; ripens the last of June in Texas.

    =Susquehanna.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 184, 214. 1856.
    =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 633. 1857. =3.= Mas _Le Verger_
    =7=:179, 180, fig. 88. 1866-73. =4.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._
    =6=:282, 283 fig. 1879.

    _Griffith._ =5.= _Mag. Hort._ =24=:107. 1858.

Susquehanna was raised many years ago by a Mr. Griffith on the banks
of the Susquehanna River, Pennsylvania, but the exact place of origin
has never been known. Tree vigorous, productive; leaves have large,
reniform glands; fruit very large, nearly round; skin rich yellow, with
a beautiful red cheek; flesh yellow, sweet, juicy, with a rich, vinous
flavor; quality good; stone free; ripens the first of September.

    =Swainson Black.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 94. 1831.

This is a dark red, medium-sized peach, ripening the first of September.

    =Swalsh.= =1.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 221, 222. 1817. =2.=
    Elliott _Fr. Book_ 294. 1854.

    _Swalze._ =3.= Langley _Pomona_ 105, Pl. 32 fig. 1. 1729.

    _Double Swalsh._ =4.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 256. 1831.

This variety is said to have been brought into England by Lord
Peterborough before 1729. Leaves with reniform glands; flowers small,
dark red; fruit medium in size, ovate, with a deep suture; skin pale
yellow, with a bright, deep red blush; flesh white, pale red at the pit
from which it separates, melting, juicy, pleasantly flavored; ripens
the first of September.

    =Swann Free.= =1.= _N. C. Sta. Rpt._ =12=:108. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Sweet.= =1.= _Ohio Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 167 fig. 1886-87.

Originated by M. E. Sweet, Kirtland, Ohio. Fruit large, roundish-oval;
color orange-yellow, mottled and striped with bright red; flesh light
yellow, juicy, sweet; quality very good; season September.

    =Sweet Water.= =1.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 16. 1820. =2.=
    Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:24. 1832.

    _Early Sweetwater._ =3.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =6=:412. 1826.
    =4.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._, 184. 1846.

According to Prince, Sweet Water originated in Flushing, New York,
early in the Nineteenth Century. The peaches ripen a few days after
Anne which Sweet Water resembles in shape of fruit and growth of tree.
Leaves large, doubly serrate, glandless; flowers large; fruit of medium
size, nearly round; skin thin, white, with a small amount of color on
the exposed side; flesh melting, white, juicy, sweet; stone small,
round, nearly flat, free.

    =Swick Wonder.= =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 236. 1906.

Listed in this reference.

    =Switzerland.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =10=:249. 1868. =2.= _Mich.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 378. 1895. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:227,
    228. 1899.

This peach is supposed to have originated in Georgia. Tree productive,
bearing leaves with globose glands; fruit medium to large, roundish,
tapering slightly towards the apex, with a very shallow suture; color
creamy-white, with a broad, dark red cheek; flesh white, red at the
pit, tender, mild and vinous; quality good; pit free; ripens the last
of August.

    =Taber.= =1.= _Fla. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:86. 1896. =2.= _Fla. Sta.
    Bul._ =73=:151, 152. 1904. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 39. 1909.
    =4.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._ =156=:135. 1911.

Taber originated in 1892 with G. L. Taber, Glen Saint Mary, Florida, as
a seedling of Honey. The American Pomological Society added the variety
to its fruit-list in 1909. Fruit large, roundish-oblong, with a long,
recurved apex; skin white, well covered with red; flesh white, streaked
with red, firm, juicy, rich, subacid; quality very good; clingstone;
ripens the last of June in Florida.

    =Tacker.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:109. 1901.

J. W. Tacker of Freestone County, Texas, grew this variety from an
unknown peach-pit about 1845. It is said to reproduce itself closely
from seed and is considered a valuable clingstone in Texas.

    =Tallman Nos. 1, 2 and 3.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:31.
    1895.

Listed in this reference.

    =Tante Mélanie.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 53. 1876.

Tree very prolific; glands reniform; flowers very small; fruit
well-colored.

    =Tarbell.= =1.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 194. 1849. =2.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 39. 1909. =3.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 208. 1913.

This variety was grown many years ago by C. H. Tarbell, Lincoln,
Massachusetts. Fruit very large, roundish, flattened at the base, with
a suture nearly around the fruit; skin rich yellow, almost entirely
covered with deep red; flesh yellow, red at the pit, very juicy, rich,
sweet; quality good; season the middle of September.

    =Tardive d'Avignon.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 416. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Tardive d'Auvergne.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:182. 1883.

    _Belle tardive d'Auvergne._ =2.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 48. 1876.

Probably of Belgian origin. Glands globose; flowers small; fruit large,
roundish; of first quality; matures early in October.

    =Tardive Béraud.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 416. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Tardive Chevallier.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 416. 1889.

Mentioned in this reference.

    =Tardive de Gros.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 416. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Tardive des Lazaristes.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186. 1883.

Listed in this reference.

    =Tardive du Mont d'Or.= =1.= _Garden_ =52=:449. 1897. =2.=
    _Rev. Hort._ 520, 521, Pl. 1897.

This peach seems to have been sent out about 1896 by Francisque Morel,
a nurseryman at Lyons, Rhône, France. Fruit large, roundish-oval; skin
yellow, shaded with deep red; flesh creamy-white, streaked with pink at
the center, very juicy, sweet, aromatic; season the first of November
in France.

    =Tardive de Montauban.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 53. 1876.

A large, yellow-fleshed peach ripening at the end of September.

    =Tardive de Passebel.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 416. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Tasmanian Wonder.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:100. 1892.

Mentioned in this reference.

    =Tausch.= =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 416. 1889.

    _Tausch's Lieblingspfirsich._ =2.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:206, 207. 1858.

Fruit large, roundish, flattened at the base; skin yellowish-white,
with a red blush; flesh yellowish-white, sweet, vinous; season the
middle of September.

    =Taylor.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:100. 1892. =2.= Waugh _Am.
    Peach Orch._ 208. 1913.

Originated in the District of Columbia. Fruit large, round, with a
yellow surface; clingstone; very good.

    =Tecumsa.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 205. 1858.

Said to be valuable in the South.

    =Teindoux.= =1.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 229. 1817. =2.= Prince
    _Pom. Man._ =2=:16, 17. 1832.

    _Teindou._ =3.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:38, 39, Pl. 27.
    1768. =4.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:286, 287. 1879.

    _Teint-Doux._ =5.= Christ _Wörterb._ 356. 1802.

    _Sanftfarbige._ =6.= Christ _Handb._ 594. 1817.

    _Zartgefärbter Lackpfirsich._ =7.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:213. 1858.

Glands globose; fruit large, round, divided into two unequal sections
by a distinct suture; skin pale yellow, mottled with red; flesh juicy,
sweet, melting, with a delicate flavor, white, faintly streaked with
red around the pit which is free; ripens the last of September.

    =Teissier.= =1.= _Pom. France_ =6=:No. 16, Pl. 16. 1869. =2.=
    _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 117 fig. 1906.

    _Pêche du Teissier._ =3.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =2=:32. 1862.

This variety was found on the grounds of a M. Teissier at Oullins, near
Lyons, France, and was introduced to the trade about 1855. Fruit large,
roundish, inclining to conic, with a well-marked suture; skin pale
yellow, washed and mottled with deep red; flesh juicy, sweet, white,
red at the pit which is free, vinous; quality very good; ripens the
last of September.

    =Temple Late.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 460. 1883.

    _Temple White._ =2.= _Mo. State Fr. Sta. Bul._ =3=:33. 1902.

This is a medium-sized, oval, yellowish-red peach of good quality,
ripening in September.

    =Tennessee.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 291. 1893.

This peach was raised about 1890 by Rev. J. G. Teter, Athens,
Tennessee. Fruit large, round; skin heavily pubescent, creamy-white,
with a trace of red; flesh creamy-white throughout, juicy, firm, meaty,
sweet, rich; quality very good; clingstone; ripens the last of October
in Tennessee.

    =Tennessee Everbearing.= =1.= Hood _Cat._ 28. 1909.

According to W. T. Hood and Company, Richmond, Virginia, this variety
first fruited about 1888. It is a large, creamy-white clingstone with
a deep blush and ripens its fruit continuously from August first to
October first.

    =Terrel.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 77. 1893.

Listed in this reference.

    =Teton de Venus.= =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:34, 35,
    Pl. XXIII. 1768. =2.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 227, fig. 12.
    1817. =3.= Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 273. 1831. =4.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 211. 1856. =5.= _Pom. France_ =6=:No. 30, Pl.
    30. 1869. =6.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 45, 224. 1876. =7.= Leroy
    _Dict. Pom._ =6=:288 fig., 289. 1879.

    _Tuteon de Venice._ =8.= Langley _Pomona_ 101. 1729.

    _Teton Venus._ =9.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ 1752.

    _Royal._ =10.= _Pom. Mag._ =2=:73, Pl. 1839.

    _Venusbrust._ =11.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:209. 1858.

From all accounts this variety was known long before Merlet mentioned
it in 1667 but its exact origin cannot be learned. According to Leroy
it seems at one time to have been called Pêche du Chevalier but this
name was permanently replaced by the present one about 1789--applied
because of the unique shape of the fruit. In 1856 the American
Pomological Society added the variety to its fruit-list but dropped it
in 1862. Tree of moderate vigor and productiveness; leaves crenate,
with globose glands; flowers small, pale red; fruit large, roundish,
inclining to oblong, with a deep suture on one side; apex terminated by
a broad, prominent, obtuse nipple; skin pale greenish-yellow, marbled
with deep red in the sun; flesh greenish-white, faintly tinged with red
at the pit, juicy, melting, sweet, having an excellent flavor; stone
large, oval, free; season the last of September.

    =Texan.= =1.= _Tex. Nur. Cat._ 4. 1913.

Texan originated in the yard of the First National Bank at Whitesboro,
Texas, and was introduced by the Texas Nursery Company, Sherman, Texas.
It is a large, white clingstone, with a blush, ripening with Elberta.

    =Texas.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 159. 1889. =2.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 34. 1899. =3.= Waugh _Am. Peach Orch._ 208. 1913.

    _Texas King._ =4.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =170=:182. 1906.

Fruit of medium size, roundish, compressed at the ends; color
greenish-white, overspread with considerable crimson; flesh white,
tinged with red at the pit and under the skin, firm, juicy, good;
semi-clingstone; ripens about the middle of August.

    =Thames Bank.= =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 233. 1866. =2.= _Gard.
    Chron._ 1552. 1871.

This variety was raised by a Mr. Rust, who was a gardener for L.
Sullivan, Broom House, Fulham, England. Fruit large, roundish-oblong;
skin deep orange-yellow, streaked on one side with crimson; flesh
yellow, tender, melting, juicy, highly flavored; season late.

    =Thissell Free. 1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 313. 1889.

    _Thissell White._ =2.= _Cal. Sta. Rpt._ 315. 1895-97.

Originated with G. W. Thissell in California and is quite widely
disseminated in that state. Fruit large, white, with a light red cheek;
flesh white throughout, juicy, rich.

    =Thomas Burns. 1.= _Gard. Mon._ =20=:236. 1878.

Introduced by Thomas F. Burns, Mt. Pulaski, Illinois. Fruit large,
roundish, with a large suture; skin white, shaded and mottled with
light red; flesh entirely white, juicy, melting, sweet, adherent;
quality, very good; season very early.

    =Thomas November. 1.= _Cultivator_ 3rd Ser. =4=:146. 1856. =2.=
    Thomas _Guide Prat._ 51. 1876.

Glands reniform; flesh white, juicy, very firm, highly flavored; ripens
the first of November.

    =Thomas Rivers. 1.= _Garden_ =56=:34. 1899. =2.= Bunyard-Thomas
    _Fr. Gard._ 114. 1904.

Originated with Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England. Leaves
glandless; fruit large, round, with a brilliant red blush; quality
good; freestone; ripens the last of September.

    =Thompson. 1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 39. 1909.

A yellow freestone said to have originated in Florida.

    =Thompson Orange. 1.= _Gard. Mon._ =20=:273. 1878. =2.= _Flor.
    & Pom._ 84. 1880.

Said to have been raised at Wilson, North Carolina. It is a large,
early, attractive, freestone peach with a good, subacid flavor.

    =Tice. 1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 295. 1854.

    _Tice's Late Red and Yellow._ =2.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 194.
    1841.

Originated by James Tice, Middletown, New Jersey. Fruit large; color
yellow, with a deep red blush; flesh free, yellow, juicy, sweet,
delicious; ripens the last of September.

    =Tiebout. 1.= Munson _Cat._ 7. 1904-05.

According to T. V. Munson and Son, Denison, Texas, this variety
originated with V. J. Tiebout, Ellis County, Texas. Fruit large; color
rich orange-yellow, with a dark red cheek; flesh firm but tender, free;
quality good; ripens in Texas the last of August.

    =Tillotson. 1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 279. 1854. =2.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 34. 1883.

    _Early Tillotson._ =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 475. 1845. =4.=
    _Cultivator_ N. S. =6=:23, 86, 308. 1849. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 78. 1862. =6.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 315. 1867.

    _Tillotson Précoce._ =7.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:165, 166, fig.
    81. 1866-73. =8.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:290 fig. 1879.

According to Thomas, this peach originated many years ago in Cayuga
County, New York. It seems to have been introduced by J. J. Thomas,
Macedon, Wayne County, New York. The American Pomological Society
added the variety to its fruit-list in 1862 as Early Tillotson but
shortened the name to Tillotson in 1883. Tree hardy, moderately
productive; leaves deeply serrate, glandless; flowers small; fruit of
medium size, roundish, sides unequal, with a shallow suture; skin pale
yellowish-white, shaded with deep red: flesh white, red at the stone
which is partially clinging, melting, juicy, with a rich, excellent
flavor; season the middle of August.

    =Tinley October.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 634. 1869.

Said to have originated at Macon, Georgia. Fruit medium in size,
somewhat oblong; color white, with a light wash of red; flesh white,
juicy, vinous, good; season the middle of October.

    =Tippecanoe.= =1.= Hoffy _Orch. Comp._ =1=:Pl. 1841-42. =2.=
    _Mag. Hort._ =8=:252. 1842. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 499.
    1845. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 80. 1862.

    _Pavie Tippécanoé._ =5.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:234 fig., 235.
    1879.

Tippecanoe was raised from seed by George Thomas, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, and was brought to notice in 1840. The variety received
a place in the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society in 1862.
Leaves with reniform glands; fruit very large, nearly round, a little
compressed on the sides; skin yellow, with a fine red blush; flesh
yellow, adherent to the pit, firm, juicy, with a good, vinous flavor;
ripens the last of September.

    =Tirlemonter Magdalene.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:197, 198. 1858.

    _Belle Tillemont._ =2.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 94. 1831.

Fruit large, roundish; skin yellow, with a red blush; flesh
yellowish-white, sweet, vinous; season the last of September.

    =Titus.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 634. 1857. =2.=
    _Horticulturist_ N. S. =7=:107 fig. 1857.

Originated with Mrs. Sarah Titus, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Fruit
large, round; skin yellow, with a red blush; flesh yellow, red at the
pit which is free, juicy, sweet; quality good; ripens from the middle
to the last of September.

    =Toledo.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:31. 1895. =2.= _Ibid._
    =169=:228. 1899.

    _Early Toledo._ =3.= Storrs-Harrison _Cat._ 142. 1894.

    _Toledo Prolific._ =4.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:68.
    1900.

According to the catalog of the Storrs and Harrison Company,
Painesville, Ohio, Toledo came from northeastern Ohio about 1890. Fruit
large, roundish; color creamy-white, washed, mottled and distinctly
striped with red; flesh creamy-white, slightly colored at the pit which
is free, juicy, tender, with a sweet, pleasant flavor; ripens from the
middle to the last of August.

    =Tonbridge.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 104. 1831.

A hardy, yellow, dark red peach, ripening early in September.

    =Tong Pa.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =31=:58. 1887. =2.= _Col. O.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 150. 1893.

Said to be a medium-sized peach of fair quality.

    =Topaz.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 404. 1894. =2.= _Ariz.
    Sta. Bul._ =34=:81. 1900.

Fruit of medium size; skin greenish-white, tinged with red; flesh not
juicy but free and of good quality; ripens the last of November in
Arizona.

    =Toquin.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 291. 1893. =2.= _Mich. Sta.
    Bul._ =169=:228. 1899.

Said to have originated with H. E. Harrison, Toquin, Michigan. Fruit
medium in size, roundish; skin yellow, with a dull red cheek; flesh
free, yellow, melting, juicy, mild subacid; quality good; season the
middle of September.

    =Tornado.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:109. 1901.

This seedling of Elberta originated with W. S. White, Denison, Texas.
The fruit resembles that of Elberta but is larger and of better
quality; season early July.

    =Toughina.= =1.= _Rural_ N. Y. =74=:1197. 1915.

Toughina was originated by J. W. Stubenrauch, Mexia, Texas, as a cross
between Elberta and Bell October. The fruit is said to surpass that of
its parents in quality and adaptability for distant shipping. Fruit
very large, with a bright yellow skin, nearly covered with attractive
red; flesh yellow, firm; quality very good; ripens immediately after
Elberta.

    =Towns Early.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 111. 1880.

This is a large, early peach originated by a Mrs. Towns, Garnett,
Kansas.

    =Townsend.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:100. 1892. =2.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:228. 1899. =3.= _Fla. Sta. Bul._ =73=:152.
    1904.

Said to be a seedling from Honey. Fruit large, roundish, often
flattened at the base, compressed; color yellow, blushed with red;
flesh juicy, tender, mild, vinous, yellow, red at the pit which is
free; quality good; season the last of September.

    =Transparente Ronde.= =1.= Christ _Wörterb._ 357. 1802.

Said to be red on one side; with a firm, pleasing flesh.

    =Triomphe de Saint-Laurent.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:291
    fig., 292. 1879.

    _Triomphe Saint-Laurent._ =2.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 40. 1876.

This peach was probably raised about 1860 by a M. Galopin in Liége,
Belgium. Fruit large, roundish, with sides unequal; skin pale yellow,
with a dark red blush; flesh white, red at the pit, juicy, sweet;
quality good; stone free; ripens the middle of August.

    =Troy.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 210. 1676.

Troy is a large, early, red peach of good quality.

    =Trueblood Late Free.= =1.= _Ind. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 27. 1869.

Said to be a hardy variety of good quality.

    =Tuckahoe.= =1.= _N. Mex. Sta. Bul._ =30=:235. 1899.

Said to ripen late in New Mexico.

    =Tufts Early.= =1.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 190. 1849. =2.= Elliott
    _Fr. Book_ 289. 1854.

Raised by E. Tufts, Cambridgeport, Massachusetts. Tree vigorous,
productive; fruit large, roundish; skin yellowish-white, with a red
cheek; flesh free, white, red at the pit, very juicy, melting, with a
sweet, delicious flavor; ripens the last of August.

    =Tufts Rareripe.= =1.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 195. 1849.

This peach was originated by Bernard Tufts, Billerica, Massachusetts,
and is said to come true from seed. Tree hardy, vigorous, productive;
fruit medium in size, roundish; skin yellow, with a bright red blush;
flesh yellow, melting, very sweet, free; ripens from the middle to the
last of September.

    =Turenne.= =1.= Noisette _Man. Comp. Jard._ =2=:479. 1860.

    _Turenne Améliorée._ =2.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =5=:188. 1863.
    =3.= Decaisne _Jard. Fruit._ =7=:Pl. 1872-75.

Turenne grew from seed many years ago near Lyons, Rhône, France. Fruit
large, roundish, somewhat irregular; skin pale yellow, deeply mottled
with crimson; flesh yellowish-white, deep red at the pit which is
adherent, coarse, acid, bitter; ripens in September.

    =Tuskena.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 75. 1873. =2.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 34. 1899. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:228. 1899.

    _Tuskena Cling._ =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 28. 1873.

    _Tuscan Cling._ =5.= _Okla. Sta. Bul._ =2=:15. 1892.

    _Yellow Tuscany._ =6.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:360.
    1903.

Tuskena originated in Mississippi. It received a place on the
fruit-list of the American Pomological Society in 1873 but was dropped
in 1897, only to be replaced in 1899. Fruit large, roundish-oval; skin
yellow, with a dark red cheek; flesh adherent, yellow, red at the pit,
firm, vinous, rich; quality good; season the last of September.

    =Twenty-Ounce Cling.= =1.= _Oregon Nur. Cat._ 36. 1913.

According to the Oregon Nursery Company, Orenco, Oregon, this is a
large, early peach desirable for canning.

    =Twyford.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 104. 1831.

Twyford is probably a seedling of Noblesse. Fruit large, pale green,
with a red blush; flesh tender and of good quality; season the first of
September.

    =Tyehurst.= =1.= _Can. Hort._ =14=:317. 1891. =2.= _Ont. Fr.
    Exp. Sta. Rpt._ =2=:58. 1895.

Tyehurst is a chance seedling which originated about thirty years ago
with E. Tyehurst, Leamington, Ontario, Canada. Fruit medium in size,
round; skin light yellow, with only a faint carmine blush; flesh
yellow, slightly stained at the pit, sweet, firm, free; quality fair;
ripens the middle of September.

    =Ulatis.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:100. 1892. =2.= _Tex. Sta.
    Bul._ =39=:815. 1896. =3.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 310. 188g.

Ulatis originated near Vacaville, California, and is supposed to be a
seedling of Alexander. Fruit large, roundish-oval; color creamy-white,
with a red blush; flesh white, with a good flavor; freestone; ripens
with Alexander.

    =Unique.= =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:161, 162, fig. 79. 1866-73.
    =2.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:293, 294 fig. 1879.

    _New Cut-leaved._ =3.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 100. 1831.

    _New Serrated._ =4.= _Ibid._ 101. 1831.

    _Emperor of Russia._ =5.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 477. 1845.
    =6.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 184, 185. 1846.

    _De Smyrne._ =7.= _Mag. Hort._ =20=:271. 1854.

    _Schöne Jersey Pfirsich._ =8.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 414. 1889.

    _Emperor._ =9.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 37. 1909.

Unique was raised more than a century ago by Michael Floy, New York
City, from a pit of a curious peach-tree with serrate leaves which he
had discovered about 1809 in New Jersey. In England the variety was
introduced about 1819 as Emperor of Russia. Tree of moderate vigor,
bearing narrow, glandless leaves which are very deeply and doubly
serrated; fruit large, roundish, broad, one side much longer than
the other; skin dull yellowish-white, with a dark red cheek; flesh
yellowish-white, firm, juicy, rich and aromatic; stone free; season the
last of August.

    =Unnamed Chinese.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 291. 1893.

Professor C. S. Sargent grew this variety at the Arnold Arboretum,
Jamaica Plain, Massachusetts, from seed received in 1868 from Dr.
Bretschneider, who found it as a cultivated variety in the mountains
north of Pekin, China. Its chief importance is as a parent type in the
production of new, hardy varieties. Fruit medium in size, roundish to
oblong-conic, sides somewhat unequal, compressed; color greenish-white,
with a faint, dotted blush; flesh greenish-white, slightly tinged with
red at the free pit, firm, juicy, fibrous, subacid to sweet; quality
good; season early September in Massachusetts.

    =Unvergleichlicher Lieblingspfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ.
    Obstkunde_ =3=:206. 1858.

    _Unvergleichlich Schöne._ =2.= Liegel _Anweisung_ 70. 1822.

Fruit large, roundish, somewhat flattened; skin yellow, with a deep
red blush; flesh white, tender, sweet, vinous; season the first of
September.

    =Utah Cling.= =1.= Munson _Cat._ 6. 1897-98.

Introduced in 1893 by T. V. Munson and Son, Denison, Texas. It is a
large, prolific, yellow peach with a red cheek.

    =Utah Free.= =1.= Munson _Cat._ 6. 1897-98.

Also introduced by T. V. Munson and Son. A large, prolific, valuable,
rich yellow peach.

    =Vagaloggia Cotogna.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =25=:88. 1859.

This is an attractive, Italian peach of excellent quality.

    =Vainqueur.= =1.= Baltet _Cult. Fr._ 238. 1908. =2.= _U. S. D.
    A. Plant Immigrants_ =117=:958. 1916.

This is an early variety of the type of Alexander, valuable chiefly for
breeding.

    =Valdy.= =1.= Thomas _Guide Prat._ 53. 1876. =2.= Leroy _Dict.
    Pom._ =6=:295 fig., 296. 1879.

Valdy was originated more than fifty years ago by a M. Valdy,
Croix-Blanche, Lot-et-Garonne, France. Fruit large, roundish; skin
yellow, washed with a dark carmine blush; flesh yellow, red at the
center, juicy, sweet, with a pleasant, aromatic flavor; pit free;
ripens the middle of August.

    =Van Buren Golden Dwarf.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =3=:53. 1861. =2.=
    _Cult. & Count. Gent._ =28=:238. 1866. =3.= _Am. Jour. Hort._
    =2=:171, 172 fig. 1867.

This sort is supposed by the originator, J. Van Buren of Georgia, to be
an accidental cross between Italian Dwarf and Van Zandt, originating
about 1857. The tree resembles a currant bush; has numerous buds; its
fruits attain average size but vary in shape. Fruit large, oblong,
sometimes round, pointed at the apex; skin golden yellow, with a
crimson cheek; flesh firm, juicy, sprightly; clingstone; ripens from
the middle of September until October.

    =Van Deman.= =1.= _Green Nur. Cat._ 23 fig. 1916.

According to Green's Nursery Company, Rochester, New York, this peach
originated near the summer home of the late Professor H. E. Van Deman,
Beulah, Michigan. Fruit large, with a distinct suture; color clear
yellow, with considerable red; flesh yellow, sweet, good; stone free;
ripens early.

    =Van Deman Early.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 110, 111.
    1880.

Said to have originated with H. E. Van Deman, Geneva, Kansas. The tree
fruited first in 1878. Fruit large; color white, covered with bright
purple and crimson; flesh slightly adherent, white, good.

    =Van Zandt. 1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:296 fig., 297. 1879.

    _Van Zandt's Superb._ =2.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:15. 1832.
    =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 487. 1845.

Van Zandt originated about 1825 with R. B. Van Zandt, Flushing, New
York. Leaves with globose glands; fruit of medium size, roundish, with
a small suture; skin yellowish-white, mottled with dark red; flesh
white, tinted with red at the pit, juicy, melting, sweet, aromatic;
quality good; stone free; ripens the first of September.

    =Vandermark. 1.= _U. S. Pat. Off. Rpt._ 196. 1847. =2.= Elliott
    _Fr. Book_ 295. 1854.

Said to be a seedling of Lemon Cling. Fruit large, roundish; color
yellow, with a red blush; flesh yellow, acid, adherent to the pit;
season September.

    =Vanderveer Optimum. 1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:12. 1832.

This peach is a seedling of Old Newington and was named after
a Dr. Vanderveer, of Long Island, New York. Fruit large, pale
yellowish-white, blushed with red; flesh sweet, juicy, with a delicate
flavor; clingstone; season the last of September.

    =Vanguard. 1.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 17. 1820. =2.= Lindley
    _Guide Orch. Gard._ 253. 1831. =3.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 233. 1866.

Probably Vanguard is but a variation of Noblesse, being included with
it by some writers. The only distinction between the two is in habit of
growth, Vanguard being more robust and hardy.

    =Vanmeter. 1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 210. 1906.

A late variety resembling Krummel.

    =Variegated Free I. 1.= _Horticulturist_ =18=:276, 277 figs.
    1863.

This variety originated many years ago with Isaac Pullen, Hightstown,
New Jersey. Fruit large, roundish, with a well-marked apex; skin
yellow, striped and marbled with deep red; flesh yellow, moderately
juicy, sweet; quality very good; ripens early in September.

    =Variegated Free II. 1.= Black _Cult. Peach & Pear_ 113. 1886.

This peach is said to be a seedling of Variegated Free I and was
introduced by H. R. Walker, Middletown, Delaware. It is a desirable
white peach, with streaks and stripes of red.

    =Veritable Chancelliere. 1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:23,
    24. 1768.

    _Kanzlerpfirsiche._ =2.= Christ _Handb._ 593. 1817.

    _Schöne Kanzlerin._ =3.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde._ =3=:198.
    1858.

This variety differs from Chancellor in having large flowers and
globose glands.

    =Verona. 1.= Rea _Flora_ 211. 1676.

Listed as a good, red peach.

    =Verte de Beaulieu. 1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:151, 152, fig. 12.
    1883.

This variety was introduced and possibly originated by a M. Dumas
near Lectoure, Gers, France. Fruit large, roundish-oval; skin
greenish-white, shaded with red; flesh white, juicy, sweet, aromatic;
quality good; season the middle of September.

    =Very Large Seedling Peach. 1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 112.
    1880.

This variety is said to have been raised in New York City and to have
ripened too late to be of value in the north.

    =Vessier.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =27=:545. 1861.

Vessier is a late, French peach, with rich, melting flesh.

    =Victor.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:110. 1901. =2.= _W. N. Y.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 11. 1907. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 39. 1909.

    _Early Victor._ =4.= _Mo. State Fr. Sta. Rpt._ 12, 13. 1905-06.

Victor is a variety of unknown parentage which originated with John B.
Bass, Bass, Texas. Fruit medium in size, roundish; color creamy-white
with a red blush; flesh creamy-white, melting, juicy, subacid, with an
almond flavor; quality good; stone semi-clinging; season early.

    =Victoria.= =1.= _Ariz. Sta. Bul._ =15=:62, 67. 1895. =2.=
    _Glen St. Mary Nur. Cat._ 14. 1900.

Victoria is of American origin and belongs to the Spanish type. Fruit
large, nearly round; skin yellow; flesh yellow, juicy, sweet, free;
ripens in Florida early in August.

    =Vilmorin.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:68. 1900.
    =2.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 119 fig. 1906.

Vilmorin was obtained by Alexis Lepère, Montreuil, France. Fruit large,
roundish, flattened at the base; skin pale yellow, washed with bright
red; flesh free, white, tinged with dark red at the pit, juicy, with a
pleasant, sweet, aromatic flavor; ripens from the middle to the last of
September.

    =Vineuse de Fromentin.= =1.= Christ _Wörterb._ 351. 1802. =2.=
    Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 212. 1832.

    _Weinhafte Fromentinerpfirsche._ =3.= Christ _Handb._ 594. 1817.

    _Fromentiner Lieblingspfirsich._ =4.= Dochnahl _Führ.
    Obstkunde_ =3=:202. 1858.

The fruit of this variety is similar to that of Grosse Mignonne
with which it is often confused. Glands round; flowers large; fruit
roundish, somewhat compressed at the ends; skin nearly covered with
dark red; flesh white except at the stone, tender, vinous, juicy; stone
small, free.

    =Vineuse Hâtive.= =1.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=:No. 17, Pl.
    1846. =2.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:300, 301 fig., 302. 1879.

Although Poiteau and Leroy differ somewhat as to the origin of this
peach, there is probably no doubt but that it was found near Paris,
France, more than two centuries ago. Fruit medium in size, roundish,
compressed at the ends; skin greenish-yellow, with a dark red blush;
flesh white, red under the skin and at the stone, juicy, vinous, sweet;
stone free; ripens the last of August.

    =Vinous Purple.= =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =1=:190. 1831.

This variety resembles Grosse Mignonne but is distinct. Fruit
large, divided on one side into two sections by a deep groove; skin
fawn-colored, covered with very dark red; flesh white, red under the
skin and around the pit, juicy, vinous, with a slightly acid flavor;
stone free.

    =Violet Hâtive.= =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 104, Pl. 30 fig. 6.
    1729. =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 637. 1869.

    _Grosse Violette Hâtive._ =3.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._
    =2=:27, Pl. XVI fig. 1. 1768.

    _Violette Hâtive._ =4.= Brookshaw _Hort. Reposit._ =1=:33, Pl.
    17 fig. 2. 1823. =5.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 233, 234. 1866.

This is undoubtedly a French variety and may be a seedling of Galande.
Fruit large, roundish; skin yellow, mottled with red over most of the
surface; flesh white, juicy, sweet, vinous; season early September.

    =Violet Muscat.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 211. 1676.

This variety is listed as a fine, violet-colored peach of good quality.

    =Violet Musk.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 211. 1676.

This is a red peach with yellow flesh.

    =Violette de Montpellier.= =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:183. 1883.

The tree of this variety is described as being moderately vigorous and
bearing dense foliage which has reniform glands.

    =Violetter Aprikosenpfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:218. 1858.

Fruit of medium size, roundish-oblong; color yellow, with a violet-red
blush; flesh juicy, tender, with a slightly acid flavor; ripens in
August.

    =Voorheis No. 1.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:35. 1889. =2.=
    _Ibid._ =39=:815. 1896.

Tree vigorous, unproductive; fruit of medium size, ovate, with a
pointed apex; color yellow, with a red cheek; quality good; season the
last of June in Texas.

    =Voorheis Silver.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =8=:35. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Wake Forest.= =1.= _N. C. Sta. Rpt._ =12=:108. 1889.

Listed in this reference.

    =Walburton.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 289. 1854. =2.=
    Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:359. 1903.

    _Walburton Admirable._ =3.= _Gard. Chron._ 702. 1841. =4.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 627. 1857. =5.= Mas _Le Verger_
    =7=:225, 226, fig. 111. 1866-73. =6.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 463.
    1884.

Walburton is a late peach raised more than seventy-five years ago by
Andrew Morton, Walburton, Sussex, England. The variety is supposed to
be a seedling of Noblesse which it resembles in many respects. Tree
hardy, productive; glands globose; flowers small; fruit large, round,
with a distinct suture; skin greenish-white, mottled, with a dark red
blush; flesh white, stained at the pit, juicy, melting, with a rich,
sweet flavor; ripens the last of September.

    =Waldo.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 46. 1891. =2.= _Fla. Sta.
    Bul._ =62=:518, 519. 1902. =3.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._ =156=:135.
    1911. =4.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:359. 1903.

Waldo was raised from a seed of Peento about 1886 by T. K. Godbey,
Waldo, Florida; it first fruited in 1888. Tree moderately large and
productive in the South; glands reniform; fruit medium to large,
roundish, with a shallow suture; apex blunt, often with a recurved tip;
skin yellow, washed with a delicate red blush; flesh yellowish-white,
slightly pink near the pit, juicy, with a sweet, delicious flavor;
freestone; ripens the first of June in the South.

    =Walker.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:228, 229. 1899. =2.=
    Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:359. 1903.

    _Walker's Variegated Free._ =3.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 213.
    1881. =4.= Fulton _Peach Cult._ 177. 1908.

Said to have originated in Delaware. Glands globose; flowers small;
fruit medium to large, roundish-oval, with a slight suture; color
creamy-white, with a bright red cheek; flesh creamy-white, with red
at the pit, tender, juicy, vinous, sprightly; quality good; pit free;
season the last of September.

    =Walker Early.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 500. 1871.

A productive, market sort ripening in August. Glands globose; fruit
small, roundish; color white, with a red blush; quality good.

    =Wallace.= =1.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:242. 1898.

Tree moderately vigorous; glands reniform; fruit large, roundish; color
greenish-yellow, with a red blush; flesh white, tough, rich, vinous,
adherent; quality good; ripens the middle of August in Georgia.

    =Waller.= =1.= Berckmans _Cat._ 13. 1916-17.

According to the P. J. Berckmans Company, Augusta, Georgia, this
peach was originated by Waller Brothers near Sparta, Georgia. Tree
productive, bears annually; fruit of the Crawford type, large; skin
yellow but nearly covered with red; flesh stringy; of good quality.

    =Wallis Best.= =1.= Stark Bros. _Cat._ 40. 1913.

According to Stark Brothers, Louisiana, Missouri, this peach originated
as a seedling of Elberta on the grounds of Henry Wallis, St. Louis
County, Missouri. It is said to resemble its parent in habit of growth,
vigor and productiveness but is hardier and of higher quality.

    =Wallis Heath Free.= =1.= Stark Bros. _Cat._ 40. 1913.

This variety originated with Henry Wallis, St. Louis County, Missouri,
according to Stark Brothers of Louisiana, Missouri. Tree hardy,
vigorous, very productive; fruit very large; flesh creamy yellow and of
fine quality.

    =Walter Early.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 183, 184. 1841. =2.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 488. 1845. =3.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_
    191. 1849.

Walter Early originated in New Jersey. Tree productive; leaves with
globose glands; fruit large, roundish; skin white, with a red cheek;
flesh white, tinged red at the stone, melting, juicy, sweet, pleasant;
ripens the last of August.

    =Ward Late.= =1.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:305 fig., 306. 1879.
    =2.= Fulton _Peach Cult._ 191, 192. 1908.

    _Ward's Late Free._ =3.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 201. 1841. =4.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 80. 1862.

    _Ward's Freestone._ =5.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 280. 1854.

    _Tardive de Ward._ =6.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:203, 204, fig. 100.
    1866-73.

According to Leroy, Doctor A. Ward, Athens, Georgia, originated this
variety. There is no statement as to the date of origin. The American
Pomological Society listed this peach in its fruit-catalog in 1862
where it has since remained. Tree vigorous, productive; glands globose
or reniform; flowers small; fruit large, roundish, inclining to oval,
with a moderately deep suture; skin pale yellowish-white, with an
attractive, crimson blush; flesh nearly white, occasionally tinged
with red at the pit, free, rich, juicy, melting, with a vinous flavor;
ripens the last of September.

    =Ware.= =1.= _U. S. Pat. Off. Rpt._ 372. 1856. =2.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 80. 1862.

Ware was placed in the fruit-list of the American Pomological Society
in 1862 without a description but was dropped in 1869.

    =Wark.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =205=:31. 1903. =2.= _Mich. Sta.
    Sp. Bul._ =44=:63. 1910.

Wark originated as a sprout from the roots of an old peach-tree in the
orchard of James Wark near Douglas, Michigan. It resembles Triumph but
is larger and freer from leaf-curl and brown-rot. It ripens later than
Triumph.

    =Washington.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =6=:409. 1826. =2.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 488. 1845. =3.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 289.
    1854. =4.= Mas _Le Verger_ =7=:177, 178, fig. 87. 1866-73. =5.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:229. 1899.

    _Washington Red Freestone._ =6.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 179. 1835.

    _Washington Rareripe._ =7.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 234. 1866.

Washington originated in America and was named and introduced by
Michael Floy of New York City. Tree vigorous, productive; glands
globose; fruit large, roundish, broad, with a deep suture extending
nearly around the fruit; skin yellowish-white, with a deep crimson
cheek; flesh pale yellowish-white, juicy, very tender, melting, sweet,
rich; stone usually free; season the middle of September.

    =Washington Clingstone.= =1.= Prince _Cat. Fr. Trees_ 24. 1823.
    =2.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 232. 1832. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees
    Am._ 499. 1845. =4.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 289. 1854.

Said to be of American origin. Glands reniform; fruit of medium size,
roundish; skin yellowish-green, with a slight red blush; flesh very
juicy, tender, melting, with a sweet, luscious flavor; ripens the last
of September.

    =Watkin Cling.= =1.= _Cultivator_ 3rd Ser. =4=:146. 1856.

This variety originated in the South as a seedling of Heath Cling which
it resembles except in later ripening.

    =Watkin Early.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:100. 1892.

Listed in this reference.

    =Weaver.= =1.= Ramsey _Cat._ 4. 1912.

According to P. T. Ramsey and Son, Austin, Texas, this peach originated
from seed grown by D. W. Weaver of Austin. Fruit large; color yellow,
overspread with red; flesh very yellow and very firm, adherent; quality
good; ripens the first of September in Texas.

    =Weber Golden Free.= =1.= Weber _Cat._ 17. 1906.

According to H. J. Weber and Sons Nursery Company, St. Louis, Missouri,
the fruit of this variety is medium in size, golden yellow, with a
bright red cheek, sweet and good in quality.

    =Weber Prize.= =1.= _The Dalles Nur. Cat._ 17, fig. 1910.

According to R. H. Weber, proprietor of The Dalles Nurseries, The
Dalles, Oregon, this variety originated in The Dalles. Fruit very
large; color rich golden-yellow, considerably overspread with deep
carmine and crimson; flesh yellow, firm, rich, delicious; pit very
free; ripens the last of September.

    =Weed.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 44. 1895.

Weed originated on the farm of George Weed, Douglas, Michigan. Fruit of
medium size, roundish; color yellow, with a purplish-red cheek; flesh
free, yellow, deep red at the pit, soft, juicy, sweet, vinous; quality
good; ripens the first of September.

    =Weeping.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 229. 1832. =2.= Elliott
    _Fr. Book_ 296. 1854.

    _Reid's Weeping._ =3.= _Horticulturist_ =29=:165, 166. 1874.

    _Reid._ =4.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:224. 1899.

This variety originated many years ago on the grounds of William Reid,
Elizabethtown, New Jersey. Tree vigorous, spreading, with graceful,
drooping branches; fruit large, roundish-ovate; skin yellow, with a
bright red cheek; flesh yellow, stained with red at the pit, very
juicy, tender, vinous; quality good; pit free; ripens the last of
August.

    =Weihnachts-Aprikosenpfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:220. 1858.

Fruit medium in size, yellow, washed with red; flesh yellow, tender,
sweet; season very late.

    =Weisse Charlotte.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_ =3=:207.
    1858.

Fruit large, round; skin yellowish-white, partly washed with red; flesh
yellowish-white, often with tinges of red, sweet but with a slight
astringent flavor; season the middle of October.

    =Welch.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Yearbook_ 272, 273, Pl. 35. 1903.

Welch was introduced by Charles B. Welch, Douglas, Michigan, having
been raised as a seedling of Chili about 1880. The variety resembles
its parent but is considered hardier, less subject to leaf-curl and
brown-rot, better in quality and ripens its fruit later.

    =Weld Freestone.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 179. 1835. =2.=
    Elliott _Fr. Book_ 289. 1854.

Said to have been raised by Eben Weld, Roxbury, Massachusetts. Fruit
large, roundish-oval; skin greenish-white, with a red blush; flesh
rich, sweet, vinous, with a delicious flavor; ripens the last of
September.

    =Wellington.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 105. 1831. =2.=
    _Can. Hort._ =24=:480. 1901.

This old sort has long been growing in Toronto, Canada, but only
recently came before the public. The fruit is a large freestone, with
yellow flesh and the tree shows distinct hardiness and vigor.

    =West.= =1.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:242. 1898.

This is a low, spreading variety with reniform glands.

    =Western Newington.= =1.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 17. 1820.

Listed in this reference as a clingstone.

    =Whaley Favorite.= =1.= _Ont. Fr. Gr. Assoc. Rpt._ =28=:87.
    1896.

This is a seedling peach raised by Mark Whaley, Olinda, Ontario,
Canada. The fruit is a yellow freestone of fair size and ripens two
weeks ahead of Early Crawford.

    =Wheatstone.= =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =3=:22. 1884.

Listed as growing upon the Station grounds in 1884.

    =Wheatley.= =1.= _Miss. Sta. Bul._ =93=:14. 1905.

Listed in this reference.

    =Wheeler Early.= =1.= _Country Gent._ =23=:158. 1864. =2.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 30. 1875. =3.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 416.
    1888.

Wheeler Early was listed by the American Pomological Society from 1875
until 1897. Glands globose; fruit small, roundish; skin white, blushed
with red; flesh melting, not very high in quality; freestone; ripens
early.

    =Wheeler Late.= =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:68.
    1900.

This is a strong-growing variety which does not ripen its fruit in
Canada.

    =Wheeler Late Yellow.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:100. 1892.

Listed as growing in Delaware.

    =White Ball.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =13=:114. 1847. =2.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 636. 1869.

Said to have originated in Massachusetts. Glands reniform; fruit of
medium size, roundish, slightly depressed; skin greenish-white, shaded
and marbled with red; flesh free, white, juicy, melting, sweet; ripens
early in September.

    =White Blossom.= =1.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 17. 1820.

    _White Blossomed Incomparable._ =2.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._
    97. 1831. =3.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:19. 1832.

    _Pêcher à Fleurs et à Fruits Blancs._ =4.= Mas _Le Verger_
    =7=:13, 14, fig. 5. 1866-73.

This singular variety has white blossoms and pale, straw-colored bark.
It was found in a hedge in Kings County, New York. The fruit resembles
the Snow peach but is inferior in size, flavor and appearance. Leaves
light green, with reniform glands; fruit large, oval; flesh white to
the stone, melting, juicy; ripens late in August.

    =White Cling.= =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 25. 1876.

This peach is a white-fleshed clingstone ripening in July.

    =White Double Crop.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:100. 1892.

Mentioned in this reference.

    =White Globe.= =1.= _Cultivator_ =4=:146. 1856.

This is a very juicy, clingstone peach, having a delicious, aromatic
flavor and ripening early in September.

    =White Imperial.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 488, 489. 1845.
    =2.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 279, 280. 1854. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 80. 1862.

This old sort originated with David Thomas, Cayuga County, New York,
and is believed to be a seedling of Noblesse. It was introduced by J.
J. Thomas, a son of the originator, Macedon, New York. Growers and
pomologists have confused White Imperial with the Imperial of southern
origin. Tree hardy, vigorous; fruit large, roundish, broad, depressed
at the apex; suture moderately deep; skin yellowish-white, tinged with
light purplish-red in the sun; flesh nearly white, melting, juicy, of
delicate texture, sweet; quality very good; freestone; ripens the last
of August.

    =White July.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:100. 1892. =2.= _Ala.
    Bd. Agr. Rpt._ =36=:106. 1908.

This is a superior clingstone peach which ripens early in Alabama.

    =White June.= =1.= _Green River Nur. Cat._ 15. 1899.

According to the Green River Nurseries, Bowling Green, Kentucky, this
variety originated with W. W. Ware, Hopkinsville, Kentucky. It is a
white peach of good quality, ripening with Alexander.

    =White Magdalen.= =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 101, Pl. 27 fig. 6.
    1729. =2.= Christ _Handb._ 598. 1817. =3.= Lindley _Guide Orch.
    Gard._ 253. 1831.

    _Magdalen._ =4.= Rea _Flora_ 210. 1676.

    _Madeleine Blanche._ =5.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:11, 12,
    13, Pl. VI. 1768. =6.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:147, 148 fig.,
    149, 150. 1879.

    _Madeleine Blanche précoce._ =7.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =12=:186.
    1883.

White Magdalen is an old French sort, having been mentioned as early as
1628 by Lectier. Leaves doubly serrate, glandless; flowers large, pale
red; fruit below medium in size, somewhat globular, halves unequal;
deeply sutured; skin yellowish-white, marbled with deep red; flesh
melting, stained near the pit, juicy but not high in flavor; stone
free, small, obtuse; ripens the middle of August.

    =White Monsieur.= =1.= Rea _Flora_ 211. 1676.

Said to be a fine, early peach.

    =White Nectarine.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =13=:111. 1901.

This is an old English variety belonging to the Chinese Cling group of
peaches. Fruit nearly large, roundish; color greenish-white, washed and
striped with crimson; flesh white, tinged with red at the pit, juicy,
melting, with a mild subacid, vinous flavor; pit free; season late.

    =White Nutmeg.= =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 100, Pl. 27 fig. 1. 1729.
    =2.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ 1752.

    _Avant-pêche blanche._ =3.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:5, 6,
    Pl. II. 1768. =4.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:45, 46 fig., 47, 48.
    1879.

    _Weisse Frühpfirsche._ =5.= Christ _Handb._ 598. 1817.

    _Kleiner weisser Frühpfirsche._ =6.= Liegel _Anweisung_ 68.
    1822. =7.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_. =3=:196. 1858. =8.=
    Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 402. 1889.

    _Frühe Montagne?_ =9.= Liegel _Anweisung_ 68. 1822.

    _Earliest White Nutmeg._ =10.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =1=:173. 1831.

This is an old French sort spoken of in 1589. Leaves small, doubly
serrate, without glands; flowers large, pale; fruit very small, oval,
distinctly sutured; apex with an acute nipple; skin white, with a pale
tinge; flesh white to the stone, juicy, musky; freestone; quality fair;
stone small, oval; ripens the middle of July.

    =White Pace.= =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 637. 1869.

This is a Southern variety, having Persian blood but with a
comparatively white skin. Flesh yellowish, juicy, sweet, free; season
August.

    =White Winter.= =1.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 17. 1820. =2.=
    Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:32. 1832.

This is an oval-shaped peach with white skin and flesh which ripens in
October and is chiefly valued for preserves.

    =Whitehead Red Heath.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 197. 1841.

This variety, which was sent out about 1840 by Richard Reynolds,
Smithfield, Virginia, is said to be superior to Heath Cling with which
it ripens. Fruit very large, with a deep red color.

    =Whitlow Choice.= =1.= _Green River Nur. Cat._ 16. 1899.

This variety was found by the Green River Nurseries, Bowling Green,
Kentucky, on the farm of W. H. Whitlow near Casky, Kentucky. It is a
freestone of good quality, resembling Yellow Rareripe and ripening the
last of July.

    =Wiard.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 117. 1900.

Wiard originated about twenty years ago on the grounds of Harry Wiard,
Syracuse, New York. Fruit large, with golden-yellow skin, nearly
covered with bright crimson; flesh yellow, very juicy; of good quality;
freestone; season the middle of September.

    =Wiggins.= =1.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =42=:242. 1898. =2.= _Del. Sta.
    Rpt._ =13=:111, 112. 1901.

Said to have originated in Texas. Fruit medium in size,
roundish-oblong, slightly compressed; skin creamy-yellow, with a red
blush; flesh greenish-white, juicy, tender, sweet; quality excellent;
stone free; ripens early in July in Texas.

    =Wilbur.= =1.= Leonard Coates _Cat._ 5. 1911-12.

According to the Leonard Coates Nursery Company, Morganhill,
California, this is a very large, attractive, yellow, freestone peach
ripening in September.

    =Wilder.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =17=:270. 1875. =2.= _Ibid._
    =18=:82. 1876.

Wilder probably originated with H. M. Engle, Marietta, Pennsylvania. It
is said to be a promising variety.

    =Wilkins.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 382. 1891.

    _Wilkins Cling._ =2.= Kan. Hort. Soc. _Peach, The_ 148. 1899.

Wilkins is said to have originated with Colonel Wilkins of Maryland
as a seedling of Heath Cling and is thought to be identical with that
variety except in being larger and having clearer and more creamy color.

    =Willard.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 115. 1900.

This variety originated with S. D. Willard, Geneva, New York, and is a
peach of good quality, ripening after Early Crawford.

    =Willett.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:32. 1895. =2.= _Ibid._
    =169=:229. 1899. =3.= _U. S. D. A. Yearbook_ 476, 477, Pl. LXI.
    1902.

Cornelius O'Bryan of New York City is said to have originated this
peach more than fifty years ago from a stone brought from South
America. In 1874 Mr. O'Bryan's property came into the possession of
Wallace P. Willett, who was so impressed with the new seedling that
the following year he induced C. L. Van Dusen, Geneva, New York, to
propagate it. Fruit large, roundish-ovate, compressed; skin deep
yellow, blushed and often striped with crimson; flesh yellow, red
at the pit, juicy, fairly tender, with a vinous flavor; stone free;
quality good; ripens the last of September.

    =Williams.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 115. 1880.

Williams was discovered about 1875 by Lewis Williams, Hillsboro,
Maryland. The fruit is said to be earlier and better than that of
Alexander.

    =Williams Catherine.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 95. 1831.

Very much like Catharine. Leaves with reniform glands; flowers small;
fruit large, pale green, blushed; of first quality; stone clings;
matures late in September.

    =Williams Cling.= =1.= L. R. Johnson _Cat._ 6. 1894.

L. R. Johnson, Coshocton, Ohio, says that this peach was grown from
a seed of Bealmear Cling by J. F. Williams. It closely resembles its
parent.

    =Williams Early Purple.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 105. 1831.

This is said to be a good, pale green peach, blushed with dull red and
ripening early in August.

    =Williamson.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt. 44._ 1895. =2.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:229. 1899.

    _Williamson Choice._ =3.= _Col., O., Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 32. 1892.

Fruit large, roundish; skin yellow, washed and striped with crimson;
flesh yellow, red at the pit, juicy, tender, with a mild, vinous
flavor; freestone; ripens the last of September.

    =Williamson Cling.= =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 186. 1835.

Fruit large, oblong, with a pointed apex; skin white, with a red blush;
flesh white, very juicy, with a good flavor; season the middle of
October.

    =Willow-Leaf.= _1._ _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =31=:58. 1887.

Listed in this reference.

    =Willson.= =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =24=:307. 1882.

This variety originated about 1878 with Pierpont Willson, Vineland,
New Jersey. Fruit large, roundish, inclined to oblong; color
yellowish-white, with a slight blush; flesh yellowish-white, dark red
at the pit, very juicy, of excellent flavor; freestone; season the
first of September.

    =Wilson.= =1.= _Peachland Nur. Cat._ 12, 13. 1890.

Wilson was introduced more than twenty-five years ago by Charles
Wright, proprietor of the Peachland Nurseries, Seaford, Delaware. The
variety resembles Reeves but is larger, more productive and ripens a
week earlier.

    =Windoes.= =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 452. 1879.

This is a freestone peach ripening in the middle of September and of
only local interest in Michigan, where it originated.

    =Wine.= =1.= _Continental Pl. Cat._ 13, 14. 1915-16.

Wine is an old variety recently introduced by the Continental Plant
Company, Kittrell, North Carolina. Said to reproduce itself from seed.
Fruit medium in size, with an attractive, red cheek; flesh very juicy
and tender, with a wine-like flavor; freestone; season the last of July.

    =Winesburgh Large Yellow.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =13=:110. 1847.

This is said to be a large, very excellent seedling which originated
long ago in Holmes County, Ohio.

    =Winifred.= =1.= Leonard Coates _Cat._ 5. 1911-12.

According to the Leonard Coates Nursery Company, Morganhill,
California, this is a very late, yellow clingstone equal to Levy.

    =Winnepesaukee.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 149. 1897.

This is a peach of New Hampshire origin.

    =Wirt Lady.= =1.= _Kan. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 84. 1898.

Said to ripen with Crothers.

    =Witham Seedling.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 105. 1831.

Listed in this reference.

    =Woburn Early Mignonne.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 100. 1831.

Mentioned in this reference.

    =Woerner.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 291. 1893.

Fruit of medium size, oblong, with a cream-white skin, faintly
blushed with red; flesh white, firm, sweet, rich; quality very good;
clingstone; season the last of October.

    =Wonderful.= =1.= _N. C. Sta. Rpt._ =12=:108. 1889. =2.= _Can.
    Hort._ =16=:81. 1893. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:229. 1899.
    =4.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:359. 1903. =5.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 39. 1909.

Wonderful is a seedling peach which originated in New Jersey nearly
thirty years ago. It has been confused with Smock which it closely
resembles. Tree hardy but lacking in productiveness; fruit large,
roundish-oval, with a distinct suture; color yellow, with a red blush
when exposed; flesh yellow, red at the pit, moderately juicy, tender,
free; quality fair; season the last of September.

    =Woodlawn Golden.= =1.= _Woodlawn Nur. Cat._ 36. 1914.

This variety was recently introduced by Allen L. Wood, proprietor of
the Woodlawn Nurseries, Rochester, New York. Fruit large; color golden
yellow, with a red cheek; flesh free, yellow, firm, with a fine, rich
flavor; season the first of September.

    =Woodman Choice.= =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =15=:290. 1896.

At one time grown on the Station grounds. Fruit large, roundish; skin
greenish-yellow, with a mottled blush; flesh deep yellow, stained with
red at the pit, juicy, firm; freestone; quality good; season the last
of September.

    =Woolsey.= =1.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:359. 1903.

    _Woolsey Nebraska._ =2.= Stark Bros. _Cat._ 40. 1913.

Said to have originated in Gage County, Nebraska. Tree hardy in
Nebraska; fruit large, roundish; color yellow, with a red and crimson
cheek; flesh yellow, rich, melting, vinous, good; pit free.

    =Worcester.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 89. 1899.

Dr. J. Warren Worcester, Middletown, New York, raised this variety
from a pit of a California peach. Fruit large, round, with a distinct
suture; flesh yellow, red at the stone, juicy, sweet, rich; freestone;
ripens rather late.

    =World Fair.= =1.= Bailey _Am. Hort._ 185. 1892.

This variety, which was introduced by the Home Nursery Company,
Normal, Illinois, is said to have originated about 1892 in Sappington,
Missouri. Tree hardy, vigorous; fruit very large, roundish; color
yellow, with a deep red blush; flesh juicy, with an excellent flavor;
season about the middle of June in Missouri.

    =Worth.= =1.= Stark Bros. _Cat._ 40. 1913.

Worth was introduced by Stark Brothers, Louisiana, Missouri, many years
ago. The peach is a yellow freestone, with a brilliant red blush,
resembling Early Crawford.

    =Wright.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt. 291._ 1893.

Tree very productive; fruit large, roundish; color rich orange-yellow,
shaded with red; flesh yellow, tinged with red at the pit, firm, juicy,
sweet, rich; quality very good; clingstone; season early in November in
California.

    =Wright Seedling.= =1.= _Gard. & For._ =8=:349. 1895. =2.=
    _Neb. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 277. 1901.

This peach was obtained by W. F. Wright, Johnson County, Nebraska. Said
to reproduce itself from seed.

    =Wyandotte Chief.= =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 50. 1879.
    =2.= _Ibid._ 110. 1880.

This variety is said to have originated on the farm of Matthew
Mudeator, near Wyandotte, Kansas. It is described as a handsome, dark
red, rich, juicy, finely flavored, freestone peach, ripening very early.

    =Wylie Cling.= =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 200. 1908.

This is an old seedling grown by John Wylie, Green Valley, California.
It is superior to Orange Cling in not splitting at the pit or dropping
from the tree; a fine peach for canning and drying.

    =XX Yellow.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:100. 1892.

Listed in this reference.

    =Yates Early.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 296. 1854.

Said to be inferior to Early York which it resembles.

    =Yates Red Cling.= =1.= Stark Bros. _Cat._ 40. 1913.

According to Stark Brothers, Louisiana, Missouri, this is a large,
attractive, red-cheeked, white-fleshed, clingstone peach, ripening ten
days earlier than Heath Cling.

    =Yazoo.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat. 39._ 1909. =2.= Waugh _Am.
    Peach Orch._ 209. 1913.

This is a clingstone which originated in Mississippi.

    =Yellow Admirable.= =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:33, 34,
    Pl. XXII. 1768. =2.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 216. 1832. =3.= _Gard.
    Chron._ 1159. 1864. =4.= Leroy _Dict. Pom._ =6=:40, 41 fig.,
    42. 1879.

    _Abricotée._ =5.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat. 92._ 1831. =6.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 489. 1845. =7.= Noisette _Man. Comp.
    Jard._ =2=:476. 1860.

    _Apricot._ =8.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =1=:194. 1831.

    _Gelbe Wunderschöne._ =9.= _Deut. Obstcabinet_ =Pt. 7=:9. 1858.

    _Gelber Aprikosenpfirsich._ =10.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:217. 1858.

    _Prachtvolle Apricosenpfirsich._ =11.= Lauche _Deut. Pom._
    =VI=:No. 1, Pl. 1882.

Yellow Admirable is an old French sort which has never been cultivated
in America. Tree vigorous, productive; leaves small, with reniform
glands; flowers usually large, with an intense rose-color; fruit large,
round, flattened; suture shallow; skin thick, finely pubescent, yellow,
blushed with red where exposed; flesh yellow, faintly red near the
stone, firm, rather dry, sweet, with the flavor of the apricot; good in
quality; pit small for the size of the fruit, partially clinging, oval,
blunt at the apex; ripens the middle of October.

    =Yellow Apricot.= =1.= Prince _Treat. Hort._ 18. 1828.

Fruit very large; color yellow, with a red blush; flesh yellow, firm,
with an apricot flavor; ripens the first of October.

    =Yellow August.= =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:817. 1896.

Said to be a very late and worthless variety in Texas.

    =Yellow Chance.= =1.= _Cal. Sta. Rpt._ 391. 1894-95.

Said to be a seedling ripening the last of September.

    =Yellow Chevreuse.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat. 95._ 1831.

Leaves with globose glands; flowers small; flesh melting.

    =Yellow Extra.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =31=:58. 1887.

Listed in this reference.

    =Yellow Globe.= =1.= _Kan. Hort. Soc. Rpt. 228._ 1910-11.

Mentioned in this reference.

    =Yellow Mignonne.= =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat. 100._ 1832.

Mentioned in this reference as a pale, greenish-yellow peach having a
red blush, dull yellow flesh and ripening in early September.

    =Yellow Nutmeg.= =1.= Prince _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 16. 1820. =2.=
    _Cultivator_ =6=:308 fig. 1849.

    _Early Yellow Nutmeg._ =3.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 101. 1831.

This is a free grower having large flowers and reniform glands. Its
flesh is deep yellow and of good quality and its season is early.

    =Yellow Peach.= =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 580. 1629. =2.=
    _Gard. Chron._ 1042. 1872.

This is a very old peach once considerably used in making peach-brandy.
Tree small, bushy; fruit large, with a bright golden, pubescent skin;
flesh very firm, clinging tenaciously to the pit.

    =Yellow Preserving.= =1.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 224. 1817.
    =2.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:20. 1832.

Fruit small, with a greenish-yellow skin; flesh greenish-yellow, dry,
with but little flavor; freestone; ripens in September.

    =Yellow Rose.= =1.= _Kan. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 51. 1901.

Yellow Rose is a seedling from F. G. Barker, Salina, Kansas. Trees
hardy, reproducing true from seed; fruit fair in size; skin pale
yellow, free from down; flesh firm, yellow; ripens early in October.

    =Yellow Seedling.= =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =27=:154. 1861.

Listed as a large, promising freestone.

    =Yellow Swan.= =1.= Sneed & Wood _Cir._ 1906.

According to John F. Sneed, Tyler, Texas, this peach was brought to
notice by C. W. Wood, Swan, Texas. It is thought to be a seedling of
Chinese Cling. Fruit large, roundish-oval, slightly compressed, with
a shallow suture; skin yellow, mottled with red on one side; flesh
yellow, sometimes faintly red at the pit, semi-clinging, tender, sweet
yet sprightly; quality good; ripens early in August.

    =Yenshi.= =1.= _Green River Nur. Cat. 17._ 1899.

    _Yenshi Hardy._ =2.= Lovett _Cat._ 34 fig. 1896.

According to the Lovett Company, Little Silver, New Jersey, this
variety was introduced from northwestern China by Professor J. L. Budd,
Ames, Iowa. Tree vigorous, very hardy; fruit large, roundish; color
creamy-white, nearly covered with crimson; flesh tender, very juicy,
high-flavored; freestone; ripens with Alexander.

    =Yocum.= =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt. 203._ 1879.

This is an attractive, large, late, yellow peach.

    =York Pearl.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =143=:186. 1897.

Listed in this reference.

    =Yulu.= =1.= _Ont. Fr. Gr. Assoc. Rpt._ App. =33=:37. 1901.

Listed in this reference.

    =Yum Yum.= =1.= _Del. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:100. 1892. =2.= _Fla. Sta.
    Bul._ =62=:518, 519. 1902.

Originated by a Dr. Cushing, Waldo, Florida. Fruit large,
roundish-oblong, with a shallow suture; skin light creamy-white, dotted
and washed with delicate red; flesh white, firm, meaty, juicy, sweet,
with almost an almond flavor; quality very good; clingstone; season
early June in Florida.

    =Zane.= =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt. 263._ 1892. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Rpt._ 74. 1895.

Zane originated on Wheeling Island in the Ohio river and was brought
to notice by Joseph Morrison, Cadiz, Ohio. Fruit medium in size,
roundish-oblate; color yellow, with a dark red blush; flesh yellow,
red at the pit, tender, juicy, mild subacid; quality good; freestone;
season early September.

    =Zea.= =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =152=:199. 1898. =2.= _Ibid._
    =205=:31. 1903.

Zea is large and attractive but is not so good nor as productive as
Waddell with which it ripens.

    =Zelhemer Lieblingspfirsich.= =1.= Dochnahl _Führ. Obstkunde_
    =3=:207. 1858.

Fruit medium in size, round; skin yellow, washed with red; flesh very
yellow, with a sweet, vinous flavor; ripens the last of August.

    =Zelia.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 41. 1877. =2.= _Pa. Fr. Gr.
    Soc. Rpt._ 587. 1878.

Zelia originated in 1873 with L. E. Berckmans, Rome, Georgia. Fruit
large; skin white, with a red cheek; flesh white, juicy, vinous;
quality very good; freestone; ripens the last of September.

    =Zell.= =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat. 39._ 1909.

Listed in this reference.

    =Zella.= =1.= _Mo. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 246. 1893.

Zella was brought to notice in 1893 by S. W. Gilbert, Thayer, Missouri.
It is a large, white, freestone peach with a bright red blush and fine
flavor.

    =Zipf Seedling.= =1.= _Hopedale Nur. Cat. 22._ 1912.

According to the Hopedale Nurseries, Hopedale, Illinois, this variety
originated as a chance seedling. Fruit large, roundish-oblong; flesh
firm, of good flavor; ripens the middle of September.

    =Zoar Beauty.= =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 296. 1854.

    _Beauty of Zoar._ =2.= _Mag. Hort._ =13=:110. 1847.

Glands globose; fruit medium in size, round; skin mostly red; flesh
free, tinged with red; ripens in September.




BIBLIOGRAPHY AND REFERENCES, WITH ABBREVIATIONS USED


The list of books which follows contains all American pomological works
in which the peach is discussed at any length. Only such European books
are listed, however, as were found useful in writing _The Peaches of
New York_. Only periodicals are listed to which references are made in
the text of the book. The reports and bulletins of experiment stations
and horticultural societies are not included since the abbreviations
used for such publications will be recognized by all. The date of
copyright has been preferred to that of publication though sometimes
it has been necessary to use the latter, as when there were several
editions from the same copyright.


  Am. Gard.

    American Gardening. An Illustrated Journal of Horticulture
    and Gardener's Chronicle. New York: 1892-1904. Copyright,
    1903. (Before its union with Popular Gardening in 1892, the
    publication was known as The American Garden. Both Popular
    Gardening and The American Garden resulted from the union or
    absorption of several other horticultural periodicals.)

  Am. Gard. Mag.

    The American Gardener's Magazine, and Register of Useful
    Discoveries and Improvements in Horticulture and Rural Affairs.
    See Mag. Hort.

  Am. Hort. An.

    American Horticultural Annual. A Year-book of Horticultural
    Progress for the Professional and Amateur Gardener,
    Fruit-grower, and Florist. (_Illustrated._) New York: 1867.
    Copyright, 1867. New edition. New York: 1870. Copyright, 1869.

  Am. Jour. Hort.

    The American Journal of Horticulture and Florist's Companion.
    (_Illustrated._) Volumes 1-5. Boston: 1867-1869. Copyrights,
    1867-1869. Continued as Tilton's Journal of Horticulture
    and Floral Magazine. (_Illustrated._) Volumes 6-9. Boston:
    1869-1871. Copyrights, 1869-1871.

  Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt.

    Proceedings of the American Pomological Society. Issued
    usually biennially from 1850 to date. First published as the
    Proceedings of the National Convention of Fruit Growers in 1848.

  Ann. Hort.

    Annals of Horticulture and yearbook of information on practical
    gardening. 5 Volumes. London: 1846-1850.

  Ann. Pom. Belge

    Annales de Pomologie Belge et Étrangère; publiées par la
    Commission royale de Pomologie Institutée par S. M. le Roi des
    Belges. (_Illustré._) 8 Tomes. Bruxelles: 1853-1860.

  Bailey, Ann. Hort.

    Annals of Horticulture in North America for the Years
    1889-1893. A Witness of Passing Events and a Record of
    Progress. By L. H. Bailey. New York: 1890-1894. Copyrights,
    1889, 1891-1894.

  Bailey, Cyc. Hort.

    Cyclopedia of American Horticulture Comprising Suggestions
    for Cultivation of Horticultural Plants, Descriptions of
    the Species of Fruits, Vegetables, Flowers and Ornamental
    Plants Sold in the United States and Canada, Together with
    Geographical and Biographical Sketches. By L. H. Bailey,
    assisted by Wilhelm Miller. (_Illustrated._) In Four Volumes.
    New York: 1900-1902. Copyrights, 1900-1902.

  Bailey, Ev. Nat. Fruits

    Sketch of the Evolution of our Native Fruits. By L. H. Bailey.
    (_Illustrated._) New York: 1898. Copyright, 1898.

  Bailey, Stand. Cyc. Hort.

    The Standard Cyclopedia of Horticulture. A Discussion, for
    the Amateur, and the Professional and Commercial Grower, of
    the Kinds, Characteristics and Methods of Cultivation of the
    Species of Plants Grown in the Regions of the United States and
    Canada for Ornament, for Fancy, for Fruit and for Vegetables;
    with Keys to the Natural Families and Genera, Descriptions of
    the Horticultural Capabilities of the States and Provinces and
    Dependent Islands, and Sketches of Eminent Horticulturists. By
    L. H. Bailey. (_Illustrated._) In Six Volumes. New York and
    London: 1914-1917. Copyrights, 1900, 1901, 1914, 1915, 1916,
    1917.

  Bailey, Sur. Unlike

    The Survival of the Unlike. A Collection of Evolution Essays
    Suggested by the Study of Domestic Plants. By L. H. Bailey.
    (_Illustrated._) Fifth Edition. New York: 1906. Copyright, 1896.

  Baltet, Cult. Fr.

    Traité de la Culture Fruitière Commerciale et Bourgeoise. Par
    Charles Baltet. (_Illustré._) Quatrième Édition. Paris: 1908.

  Barry, Fr. Garden

    The Fruit Garden. By P. Barry. (_Illustrated._) New York: 1852.
    Copyright, 1851. Revised Edition, 1896. Copyright, 1883.

  Beverly, Hist. Va.

    History of Virginia. By Robert Beverly. 1722. Reprinted in
    Richmond, 1855.

  Black, Cult. Peach & Pear

    The Cultivation of the Peach And The Pear, on the Delaware and
    Chesapeake Peninsula; with a Chapter on Quince Culture and the
    Culture of Some of the Nut-Bearing Trees. By John S. Black, M.
    D. (_Illustrated._) Wilmington: 1886. Copyright, 1886.

  Bradley, Gard.

    New Improvements of Planting and Gardening, both Philosophical
    and Practical. In three parts. By Richard Bradley.
    (_Illustrated._) Seventh Edition with Appendix, London: 1739.

  Bridgeman, Gard. Ass't.

    The Young Gardener's Assistant, in three parts. By Thomas
    Bridgeman. New Edition, with an Appendix. New York: 1857.
    Copyright, 1847.

  Brookshaw, Hort. Reposit.

    The Horticultural Repository, containing Delineations of the
    best Varieties of the Different Species of English Fruits. By
    George Brookshaw. (_Illustrated._) In Two Volumes. London: 1823.

  Brookshaw, Pom. Brit.

    Pomona Britannica, or A Collection of the Most Esteemed Fruits
    at present Cultivated In Great Britain; selected principally
    from the Royal Gardens At Hampton Court, and the remainder from
    The Most Celebrated Gardens Round London; Accurately Drawn and
    Colored from Nature, with Full Descriptions of their Various
    Qualities, Seasons, &c. By George Brookshaw. Volumes I and II.
    London: 1817. Vol. I. The Peach.

  Budd-Hansen, Am. Hort. Man.

    American Horticultural Manual. By J. L. Budd, assisted by N. E.
    Hansen. (_Illustrated._) In Two Volumes. Volume 2. New York and
    London: 1903. Copyright, 1903.

  Bunyard-Thomas, Fr. Gard.

    The Fruit Garden. By George Bunyard and Owen Thomas.
    (_Illustrated._) London and New York: 1904.

  Can. Hort.

    The Canadian Horticulturist. (_Illustrated._) Toronto and
    Peterboro: 1878 to date.

  Carrière, Var. Pêchers.

    Description Et Classification des Variétés De Pêchers et de
    Brugonniers. Par E. A. Carrière. Paris: 1867.

  Cat. Cong. Pom. France

    Société Pomologique de France Catalogue Descriptif des Fruits
    Adoptés par le Congrès Pomologique. Lyon: 1887. Ibid.: 1906.

  Cecil, Hist. Gard. Eng.

    A History Of Gardening In England. By the Hon. Mrs. Evelyn
    Cecil. Third and enlarged edition. (_Illustrated._) New York:
    1910.

  Christ, Handb.

    Handbuch über die Obstbaumzucht und Obstlehre. Von J. L.
    Christ. Vierte, sehr verbesserte und vermehrte Auflage.
    Frankfurt: 1817.

  Christ, Wörterb.

    Pomologisches theoretisch-praktisches Handwörterbuch, oder
    Alphabetisches Verzeichniss. Von J. L. Christ. Leipzig: 1802.

  Cole, Am. Fr. Book

    The American Fruit Book; containing directions for Raising,
    Propagating, and Managing Fruit Trees, Shrubs, and Plants; with
    a description of the Best Varieties of Fruit, including New and
    Valuable Kinds. By S. W. Cole. (_Illustrated._) Boston: 1849.
    Copyright, 1849.

  Country Gent.

    The Country Gentleman. Albany: 1853-1865. The Cultivator &
    Country Gentleman. Albany: 1866-1897. The Country Gentleman.
    Albany and Philadelphia: 1898 to date.

  Coxe, Cult. Fr. Trees

    A View of the Cultivation of Fruit Trees, and the Management
    of Orchards and Cider; with accurate descriptions of the most
    estimable varieties of Native and Foreign Apples, Pears,
    Peaches, Plums and Cherries, cultivated in the middle states of
    America. By William Coxe. (_Illustrated._) Philadelphia: 1817.
    Copyright, 1817.

  Cultivator

    The Cultivator. Albany: 1834-1865. In 1866 united with The
    Country Gentleman.

  Cult. & Count. Gent.

    The Cultivator & Country Gentleman. See Country Gent.

  Darwin, Ans. and Pls. Domest.

    The Variation of Animals And Plants under Domestication. By
    Charles Darwin. (_Illustrated._) First edition. London: 1868.
    Second edition, revised. In Two Volumes. London: 1893.

  De Candolle, Or. Cult. Plants

    Origin of Cultivated Plants. By Alphonse de Candolle. Geneva
    [Switzerland]: 1882. New York: 1885.

  Decaisne, Jard. Fruit.

    Le Jardin Fruitier Du Muséum Ou Iconographie De Toutes Les
    Espèces Et Variétés D'Arbres Fruitiers Cultivés dans cet
    Établissement Avec Leur Description, Leur Histoire, Leur
    Synonymie, Etc. Par J. Decaisne. Tome Septième. Paris:
    1872-1875.

  Decaisne & Naudin, Man. Amat. Jard.

    Manuel de L'Amateur Des Jardins Traité Général D'Horticulture.
    Par Jh. Decaisne et CH. Naudin. (_Illustré._) Tome Quatrième.
    Paris.

  Deut. Obstcabinet

    Deutsches Obstcabinet in naturgetreuen fein colorirten
    Abbildungen und Fruchtdurchschnitten zu Dittrich's
    systematischem Handbuche der Obstkunde und zu jedem
    pomologischen werke nebst einter kurzen Beschreibung und
    Diagnose der Obstarten. Neue Auflage. Section VII. Jena: 1858.

  Dochnahl, Führ. Obstkunde

    Der sichere Führer in der Obstkunde auf botanisch-pomologischen
    Wege oder Systematische Breschreibung aller Obstsorten. Von F.
    J. Dochnahl. Vier Bände. Nürnberg: 1855-60. Volume 3, 1858.
    Peaches.

  Downing, Fr. Trees Am.

    The Fruits and Fruit Trees of America: or the culture,
    propagation, and management, in the garden and orchard, of
    fruit trees generally; with Descriptions Of All The Finest
    Varieties Of Fruit, Native and Foreign, Cultivated In This
    Country. By A. J. Downing. (_Illustrated._) New York & London:
    1845. Copyright, 1845. Second edition, same text, with colored
    plates, 1847. First revision, by Charles Downing. New York:
    1857. Copyright, 1857. Second revision, by Charles Downing. New
    York: 1869. First appendix, 1872. Second appendix, 1876. Third
    appendix, 1881.

  Duhamel, Trait. Arb. Fr.

    Traité Des Arbres Fruitiers; Contenant Leur Figure, Leur
    Description, Leur Culture, &c. Par M. Duhamel Du Monceau.
    (_Illustré._) Tomes 1 et 2. Paris: 1768. Édition publié en
    1872, en trois tomes. Nouvelle Édition en six tomes, 1807-1835.

  Elliott, Fr. Book

    Elliott's Fruit Book; or, the American Fruit-Grower's Guide
    in Orchard and Garden. By F. R. Elliott. (_Illustrated._) New
    York: 1858. Copyright, 1854. Revised edition. 1859.

  Fish, Hardy-Fr. Bk.

    The Hardy-Fruit Book. By D. T. Fish. (_Illustrated._) Two
    Volumes. London: probably 1882.

  Flor. & Pom.

    The Florist And Pomologist: A Pictorial Monthly Magazine of
    Flowers, Fruits, and General Horticulture. Conducted at first
    by Robert Hogg and John Spencer, later by Thomas Moore and
    William Paul. (_Illustrated._) London: 1862-1884.

  Floy-Lindley, Guide Orch. Gard.

    A Guide to the Orchard And Fruit Garden or an account of the
    Most Valuable Fruits cultivated in Great Britain. By George
    Lindley; edited by John Lindley. American edition by Michael
    Floy. New York: 1833. New edition; with an Appendix. New York:
    1846. Copyright, 1846.

  Forsyth, Treat. Fr. Trees

    A Treatise on the Culture and Management of Fruit Trees. By
    William Forsyth. London: 1802. Same with an Introduction and
    Notes, by William Corbett. Albany: 1803. Seventh edition
    [English] London: 1824.

  Fulton, Peach Cult.

     Peach Culture. By James Alexander Fulton. (_Illustrated._)
    Copyright, 1889. New, revised, and greatly enlarged edition.
    New York: 1908.

  Gard. Chron.

    The Gardener's Chronicle. (_Illustrated._) London: 1841 to date.

  Gard. & For.

    Garden And Forest. A Journal of Horticulture, Landscape Art and
    Forestry. Conducted by Charles S. Sargent. (_Illustrated._)
    Volumes I-X. New York: 1888-1897, Copyrights, 1888-1897.

  Gard. Mon.

    The Gardener's Monthly and Horticultural Advertiser. Edited by
    Thomas Meehan. (_Illustrated._) Philadelphia: 1859-1887.

  Garden.

    The Garden. (_Illustrated._) London: 1872 to date.

  Gaucher, Pom. Prak. Obst.

    Pomologie des Praktischen Obstbaumzüchters. Von N. Gaucher.
    (_Illustrirt._) Stuttgart: 1894.

  Gen. Farmer.

    The Genesee Farmer. Edited by Luther Tucker, Rochester:
    1831-1839. Then consolidated with the Cultivator. Another
    periodical of the same name was published in Rochester from
    1845 to 1865. Also New Genesee Farmer and Monthly Genesee
    Farmer.

  Gerarde, Herball.

    The Herball or Generall Historie of Plantes. By John Gerarde.
    Enlarged and amended by Thomas Johnson. London: 1633. Reprinted
    without alteration, 1636.

  Guide Prat.

    Guide Pratique de L'Amateur De Fruits. Description Et Culture,
    des Variétés De Fruits Classées Par Séries De Mérite composant
    les collections pomologiques De L'Etablissement Horticole
    Simon-Louis Frères. A Plantières-Les-Metz (Lorraine Annexée)
    Suivi D'Une Table Générale Alphabétique de tous les Synonymes
    connus, Francais et Étrangers appartenent à chaque variété.
    Deuxième Édition. Paris et Nancy: 1895.

  Hoffy, N. Am. Pom.

    Hoffy's North American Pomologist, containing numerous Finely
    Colored Drawings, accompanied by letter press descriptions,
    &c., of Fruits of American Origin. Edited by William D.
    Brincklé. Book No. 1. Philadelphia: 1860. Copyright, 1860.

  Hoffy, Orch. Com.

    The Orchardist's Companion. Alfred Hoffy, Editor and Publisher.
    A quarterly journal. Vol. I, 1841-2; Vol. II, 1842-3.
    Philadelphia.

  Hogg, Fruit Man.

    The Fruit Manual: A Guide to the Fruits and Fruit Trees of
    Great Britain. By Robert Hogg. First edition, London: 1860.
    Second edition, 1861. Third edition, 1866. Fourth edition,
    1873. Fifth edition, 1884.

  Hooper, W. Fr. Book.

    Hooper's Western Fruit Book: a compendious Collection of Facts
    from the Notes and Experience of Successful Fruit Culturists,
    arranged for practical use in The Orchard and Garden. By E. J.
    Hooper. Cincinnati: 1857. Copyright, 1857.

  Hort. Reg. (Am.).

    Horticultural Register and Gardener's Magazine. Edited by T. G.
    Fessenden and J. E. Teschemacher. Volume I. Boston: 1835.

  Hort. Reg. (Eng.).

    The Horticultural Register and General Magazine. By Joseph
    Paxton and Joseph Harrison. Vol. I. London: 1833.

  Horticulturist.

    The Horticulturist and Journal of Rural Art and Rural Taste.
    Founded and first edited by A. J. Downing. (_Illustrated._)
    Volumes 1 to 30. Albany, Philadelphia and New York: 1846-1875.

  Hovey, Fr. Am.

    The Fruits of America, containing Richly Colored Figures, and
    full Descriptions of all the choicest Varieties cultivated in
    the United States. By C. M. Hovey. Volume I. Boston and New
    York: 1852. Volume II. Boston: 1856. Copyright, 1851.

  Jour. Hort.

    The Journal of Horticulture began as: The Cottage Gardener;
    or Amateur's and Cottager's Guide to out-door gardening and
    spade cultivation. 25 Volumes. London: 1849-1861. Continued
    as The Journal of Horticulture, Cottage Gardener, and Country
    Gentleman. A Journal of Horticulture, Rural and Domestic
    Economy, Botany and Natural History. New Series. 38 Volumes.
    London: 1861-1880. Continued as The Journal of Horticulture,
    Cottage Gardener, and Home Farmer. A Chronicle of Country
    Pursuits and Country Life, including Poultry, Pigeon, and
    Bee-keeping. Third Series. 59 Volumes. London: 1880-1909.

  Jour. Roy. Hort. Soc.

    The Journal of the Royal Horticultural Society. London: 1846 to
    date. Vols. 1-9, 1846-55, bear the title of The Journal of the
    Horticultural Society of London.

  Kalm, Travels N. Am.

    Travels into North America. By Peter Kalm. Volumes 1-3.
    1770-1771.

  Kenrick, Am. Orch.

    The New American Orchardist. By William Kenrick. Boston: 1833.
    Copyright, 1832. Second edition. Boston: 1835. Copyright, 1835.
    Seventh edition, enlarged and improved, with a supplement.
    Boston: 1845. Copyright, 1841.

  Knoop, Fructologie.

    Part I. Pomologie, ou Description des meilleures sortes de
    Pommes et de Poires. Part II. Fructologie, ou Description
    des Arbres Fruitiers. Par Jean Herman Knoop. (_Illustré._)
    Amsterdam: 1771.

  Koch, Deut. Obst.

    Die Deutschen Obstgehölze. Vorlesungen gehalten zu Berlin im
    Winterhalbjahr 1875-76. Von Karl Koch. Stuttgart: 1876.

  Kraft, Pom. Aust.

    Pomona austriaca, Abhandlung von den Obstbäumen. Von Johann
    Kraft. 2 Theile. Vienna: 1792.

  Langley, Pomona.

    Pomona, or the Fruit Garden Illustrated. By Batty Langley.
    London: 1729.

  Lauche, Deut. Pom.

    Deutsche Pomologie. Von W. Lauche. (_Illustrirt._) Berlin: 1882.

  Lauche, Ergänzungsband.

    Erster Ergänzungsband zu Lucas' und Oberdieck's Illustrirtes
    Handbuch der Obstkunde. Von W. Lauche. Berlin: 1883.

  Lawson, Hist. Carolina.

    History of Carolina. By John Lawson. 1714. Reprinted at
    Raleigh, 1860.

  Le Bon Jard.

    Le Bon Jardinier. 126e Édition Almanach Horticole, 1882 et
    129e Édition, 1884. Paris.

  Leroy, Dict. Pom.

    Dictionnaire de Pomologie. Par André Leroy. (_Illustré._) 6
    Tomes. Paris: 1867-1879. Tome 6, 1879. Peaches.

  Liegel, Anweisung.

    Anweisung, mit welchen Sorten verschiedene Obstbaum-Anlagen
    besetzt werden sollen. Von G. Liegel. Salzburg: 1822.

  Liegel, Syst. Anleit.

    Systematische Anleitung zur Kenntniss der vorzüglichsten Sorten
    des Kern-, Stein-, Schalen- und Beerenobster. Von Georg Liegel.
    Passau: 1825.

  Lindley, Guide Orch. Gard.

    A Guide to the Orchard And Kitchen Garden; or, an account of
    the most valuable fruit and vegetables cultivated In Great
    Britain: with Kalendars of the Work Required in the Orchard
    and Kitchen Garden during every month in the year. By George
    Lindley. Edited by John Lindley. London: 1831.

  Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat.

    A Catalogue of the Fruits Cultivated in the Garden of the
    Horticultural Society of London. London: 1826. Second edition,
    1831. Third edition, 1842. A supplement was published in 1853.

  Loudon, Arb. Frut. Brit.

    Arboretum et Fruticetum Britannicum. Par J. C. Loudon. Deuxième
    Édition. Tome 2. London: 1844.

  Loudon, Enc. Gard.

    An Encyclopedia Of Gardening. By J. C. Loudon. (_Illustrated._)
    New edition. London: 1834.

  Lucas, Handb. Obst.

    Vollständiges Handbuch der Obstkultur. Von Ed. Lucas.
    (_Illustrirt._) Stuttgart: First edition, 1880; second edition,
    1886; third edition, 1893. Third edition edited by Fr. Lucas,
    1894.

  McIntosh, Bk. Gard.

    The Book of the Garden. By Charles McIntosh. (_Illustrated._)
    Two Volumes. London: 1855.

  McMahon, Am. Gard. Cal.

    The American Gardener's Calendar. By Bernard McMahon.
    Philadelphia: 1806.

  Mag. Hort.

    The Magazine of Horticulture. Boston: 1837-1868. First
    published as The American Gardener's Magazine, 1835-6. Edited
    by C. M. Hovey with P. B. Hovey, Jr., associate editor during
    1835-6.

  Manning, Book of Fruits.

    Book of Fruits. By Robert Manning. (_Illustrated._) Salem:
    1838. Copyright, 1838.

  Mas, Le Verger.

    Le Verger ou Histoire, Culture Et Description avec planches
    coloriées Des Variétés De Fruits Les Plus Généralement Connues.
    Par M. Mas. 8 Tomes. Paris: 1866-73 Tome 7. Peaches.

  Mas, Pom. Gen.

    Pomologie Générale. Par M. Mas. (_Illustré._) 12 Tomes. Paris:
    1872-83. Tome 12, 1883. Peaches.

  Mathieu, Nom. Pom.

    Nomenclator Pomologicus. Von Carl Mathieu. Berlin: 1889.

  Mawe-Abercrombie, Com. Gard.

    The Complete Gardener. By Thomas Mawe and John Abercrombie.
    London: 1829.

  Miller, Gard. Dict.

    The Gardener's Dictionary. By Philip Miller. Sixth edition.
    London: 1752. Revised edition. By Thomas Martyn. London: 1807.

  Miller, Gard. Kal.

    The Gardener's Kalendar. By Philip Miller. London: 1734.

  Nat. Nur.

    The National Nurseryman. Published by The National Nurseryman
    Publishing Co. (_Illustrated._) Rochester: 1893 to date.

  Nicholson, Dict. Gard.

    The Illustrated Dictionary of Gardening, a practical and
    scientific Encyclopedia of Horticulture for Gardeners and
    Botanists. By George Nicholson, assisted by J. W. H. Trail and
    J. Garrett. 4 Volumes. London. Supplement to same. By George
    Nicholson et al. London: 1900.

  Noisette, Man. Comp. Jard.

    Manuel Complet du Jardinier. Par M. Louis Noisette. Tome
    Deuxième, Paris: 1860.

  Oberdieck, Obst-Sort.

    Deutschlands beste Obst-Sorten. Von F. G. C. Oberdieck.
    Leipzig: 1881.

  Parkinson, Par. Ter.

    Paradisi in Sole. Paradisus Terrestris. By John Parkinson.
    (_Illustrated._) London: 1629.

  Parkinson, Tour Am.

    A Tour In America, in 1798, 1799 and 1800. Exhibiting Sketches
    of Society and Manners and a particular account of the American
    System of Agriculture, with its recent improvements. By Richard
    Parkinson. Volumes I and II. London: 1805.

  Phillips, Com. Orch.

    The Companion for the Orchard. An Historical And Botanical
    Account of Fruits Known In Great Britain. By Henry Phillips.
    New Edition, London: 1831.

  Poiteau, Pom. Franc.

    Pomologie Francaise. Recueil des Plus Beaux Fruits Cultivés En
    France. Par Antoine Poiteau. Tomes 1-4. Paris: 1846.

  Pom. France.

    Pomologie De La France ou Histoire Et Description de tous Les
    Fruits Cultivés En France Et Admis Par Le Congrès Pomologique.
    (_Illustré._) Tomes I-VIII. Lyon: 1863-1873. Tome VI, 1869.
    Peaches.

  Pom. Mag.

    The Pomological Magazine; or, Figures And Descriptions of the
    Most Important Varieties Of Fruit cultivated in Great Britain.
    Three Volumes. London: 1828-30. This work has also been
    published under the title Pomona Brittanica.

  Popular Gard.

    Popular Gardening. An Illustrated periodical devoted to
    Horticulture in all its branches. Volume I. Buffalo: 1886.
    Continued as Popular Gardening and Fruit Growing. Volumes
    II-VI. Buffalo: 1887-1891. Consolidated with The American
    Garden and continued as American Gardening. New York: 1892-1904.

  Prince, Cat. Fr. Trees.

    Catalogue of Fruit And Ornamental Trees & Plants, Bulbous
    Flower Roots, Green-House Plants, &c. &c. Cultivated at the
    Linnæan Botanic Garden, William Prince, Prop. Twenty-second
    edition. New York: 1823.

  Prince, Pom. Man.

    The Pomological Manual; or, A Treatise on Fruits. By William
    Robert Prince, aided by William Prince. Second Edition. Part
    I. New York: 1832. Copyright, 1831. Part II. New York: 1832.
    Copyright, 1832.

  Prince, Treat. Hort.

    A Short Treatise on Horticulture. By William Prince. New York:
    1828. Copyright, 1828.

  Prince, Treat. Trees & Plants.

    A Treatise on Fruit and Ornamental Trees And Plants, cultivated
    at the Linnaean Botanic Garden, Flushing, Long-Island, near
    New-York. By William Prince. New York: 1820.

  Rea, Flora.

    Flora: Seu, De Florum Cultura; or A Complete Florilege. By John
    Rea. 3 Books. London: 1676. Book 3. Peaches.

  Rev. Hort.

    Revue Horticole. Journal D'Horticulture Pratique. (_Illustré._)
    Paris: 1829 to date.

  Rural N. Y.

    The Rural New-Yorker. A Journal for the Suburban and Country
    Home. (_Illustrated._) Rochester and New York: 1850 to date.

  Rutter, Cult. & Diseases Peach.

    The Culture And Diseases of The Peach. By John Rutter.
    Harrisburg: 1880. Copyright, 1880.

  Sickler, Teutsche Obst.

    Der teutsche Obstgartner oder gemeinnutziges Magazin Des
    Obstbaues in Teutschlands sammtlichen Kreisen; verfasser von
    einigen prachtischen Freunden Der Obstcultur und herausgegeben
    von J. B. Sickler. Volumes 8-13. Weimar: 1797-1800.

  Soc. Nat. Hort. France Pom.

    Nationale D'Horticulture De France. Section Pomologique. Les
    Meilleurs Fruits au début du XXe siècle. (_Illustré._) Paris:
    1904.

  Sou. Cult.

    The Southern Cultivator. A Monthly Journal, devoted to the
    improvement of Southern Agriculture. (_Illustrated._) Augusta,
    Ga.: 1843-1848.

  Thacher, Am. Orch.

    The American Orchardist. By James Thacher. Boston: 1822.
    Copyright, 1822.

  Thomas, Am. Fruit Cult.

    The American Fruit Culturist. By John J. Thomas.
    (_Illustrated._) First Edition. Geneva and Auburn, N. Y.:
    1846. Copyright, 1846. Revised Edition. Auburn, N. Y.: 1851.
    Copyright, 1849. Revised Edition. New York: 1869. Copyright,
    1867. Revised Edition. New York: 1885. Copyright, 1875-1885.
    Twentieth Edition, Revised and Enlarged. New York: 1897.
    Copyright, 1897. Twenty-first Edition, Revised and Enlarged.
    New York: 1911. Copyright, 1903.

  Thomas, Guide Prat.

    Guide Pratique de L'Amateur de Fruits. Par O. Thomas. 1876.
    Deuxiéme Édition. 1895. See Guide Pratique.

  Thompson, Gard. Ass't.

    The Gardener's Assistant; Practical and Scientific. By Robert
    Thompson. (_Illustrated._) Two Volumes. London: 1859. Same,
    revised by William Watson. Six Volumes. London: 1901.

  Tilton, Jour. Hort.

    Tilton's Journal of Horticulture and Floral Magazine. See Am.
    Jour. Hort.

  Trans. Lond. Hort. Soc.

    Transactions of the Horticultural Society of London. Volume
    I. London: 1815. Volume II. London: 1817. Volume III. London:
    1820. Volume IV. London: 1822. Volume V. London: 1824. Volume
    VI. London: 1826.

  U. S. D. A. Rpt.

    Reports of the United States Department of Agriculture:
    1862-1894.

  U. S. D. A. Yearbook.

    Reports of the United States Department of Agriculture: 1894 to
    date.

  U. S. Pat. Off. Rpt.

    Reports of the Agricultural section of the United States Patent
    Office: 1837 to 1861.

  Waugh, Am. Peach Orch.

    The American Peach Orchard. A Sketch of the Practice of Peach
    Growing in North America at the Beginning of the Twentieth
    Century. By F. A. Waugh. (_Illustrated._) New York: 1913.
    Copyright, 1913.

  Waugh, Syst. Pom.

    Systematic Pomology. Treating of the Description, Nomenclature,
    and Classification of Fruits. By F. A. Waugh. (_Illustrated._)
    New York: 1903. Copyright, 1903.

  Wickson, Cal. Fruits

    The California Fruits and How To Grow Them. By Edward J.
    Wickson. (_Illustrated._) Second Edition. San Francisco: 1891.
    Copyright, 1889. Fourth Edition. Los Angeles: 1909. Copyright,
    1908. Seventh Edition. San Francisco: 1914. Copyright, 1914.

  Willich, Dom. Enc.

    Domestic Encyclopedia or a Dictionary of Facts. By A. F. M.
    Willich. First American edition with additions by James Mease.
    In five volumes. Volume 4, Philadelphia: 1803.




INDEX

(Names of varieties in this index, if accepted names, appear in Roman
type; synonyms in italics.)


  À Bec, 291

  _À Feuilles de Saule_ (syn. of French Willow Leaved), 364

  Abbé de Beaumont, 291

  Abbé Jodoc, 291

  _Abricotée_ (syn. of Yellow Admirable), 495

  _Abt Jodocus_ (syn. of Abbé Jodoc), 291

  Abundance, 291

  Acampo, 291

  Acme, 291

  Acton Scot, 291

  Adèle Thirriot, 292

  Admirable, 292

  Admirable Jaune, 292

  Admirable Jaune Tardive, 292

  Admirable Saint-German, 292

  _Admiral_ (syn. of Admiral Dewey), 178

  Admiral Dewey, 178

  Adrian, 292

  Advance, 292

  Aehrenthal, 292

  _Aehrenthal Lackpfirsich_ (syn. of Aehrenthal), 292

  Affleck, Thomas, var. orig. with, 433

  Agriculture, history of, 1

  _Aigle doré_ (syn. of Golden Eagle), 370

  _Aigle de Mer_ (syn. of Sea Eagle), 463

  _Aikelin Frühpfirsich_ (syn. of Hâtive d'Aikelin), 379

  Aiken, 293

  Ailsworth, 293

  Albatross, 293

  Albemarle, 293

  Alberge, 293

  _Alberge-Aprikosenpfirsich_ (syn. of Rossanna), 456

  Albert, 293

  Albert Late Rareripe, 294

  Albert Sidney, 294

  Albertine Millet, 294

  Alberza, 294

  Albright, 294

  _Albright_ (syn. of Albright Cling I), 294

  Albright, var. orig. by, 294

  Albright, Miss, var. orig. with, 294

  Albright Cling I, 294

  Albright Cling II, 294

  _Albright October_ (syn. of Albright Cling I), 294

  _Albright Winter_ (syn. of Albright Cling I), 294

  Alexander, 179

  Alexander, O. A., var. orig. by, 179

  _Alexander's Early_ (syn. of Alexander), 179

  Alexandra, 295

  _Alexandra Noblesse_ (syn. of Alexandra), 295

  Alexandre Dumas, 295

  Alexiana Cherpin, 295

  Alexis Lepère, 295

  Alger Winter, 295

  Algerine, 295

  _Algiers Yellow_ (syn. of Late Yellow Alberge), 400

  _Algiers yellow winter clingstone_ (syn. of Late Yellow Alberge), 400

  Alice, 295

  Alice Free, 295

  _Alice Haupt_ (syn. of Alice), 295

  Alida, 295

  Allen, A. T., var. orig. by, 296

  Allen, J. F., var. orig. by, 413

  Allen I, 295

  Allen II, 296

  Allen October, 296

  Allman Cling, 296

  Almond, 296

  Almond, relationship of the, to the peach, 11-13, 69-70, 80

  Alpha I, 296

  Alpha II, 296

  Alpha III, 296

  Alto Pass, 296

  Alton, 180

  Amande Douce, 296

  _Amandier-Pêcher_ (syn. of Almond), 296

  Ambrosia, 296

  Amelia I, 297

  Amelia II, 297

  Ameliaberta, 297

  American Apricot, 297

  American Pound, 297

  Ammirabile Belga, 297

  Amsden, 297

  Amsden, L. C., var. orig. by, 297

  _Amsden June_ (syn. of Amsden), 297

  Amsden Pine, 298

  _Amygdalus laevis_ (syn. of _P. persica_), 77

  _Amygdalus Nectarina_ (syn. of _P. persica_), 77

  _Amygdalus Nuci-persica_ (syn. of _P. persica_), 77

  _Amygdalus Persica_ (syn. of _P. persica_), 77

  _Amygdalus Persica_ var. _nucipersica_. (syn. of _P. persica_), 77

  _Ananas-Aprikosenpfirsich_ (syn. of Pineapple), 443

  Ananiel, 298

  _Andenken an Java_ (syn, of Souvenir de Java), 469

  _Andenken an Jean Rey_ (syn. of Souvenir de Jean Rey), 469

  André Leroy, 298

  Andrews, 298

  _Andrews Mammoth_ (syn. of Andrews), 298

  Angel, 298

  Angelle Lafond, 298

  Angers Large Purple, 298

  Anna Ruffin, 298

  Anne, 298

  _Anne Précoce de Fay_ (syn. of Fay Early Anne), 359

  Annie Laurie, 299

  Annie Trice, 299

  Annie Wylie, 299

  Antleys, 299

  Antleys, var. orig. with, 299

  Apex, 299

  _Apricot_ (syn. of Yellow Admirable), 495

  _Aprikosenartiger Härtling_ (syn. of Pavie Abricotée), 434

  _Archiduc Jean_ (syn. of Erzherzog Johann), 356

  Arctic, 299

  Aremie, 299

  _Argentée Précoce_ (syn. of Early Silver), 352

  Arietta, 299

  Arkansas, 299

  _Arkansas Traveler_ (syn. of Arkansas), 299

  Arlington, 299

  Arp, 182

  _Arp Beauty_ (syn. of Arp), 182

  Arthur Chevreau, 300

  Artz, 300

  Asa Meek Seedling, 300

  Ashby, G. W., var. orig. by, 300

  Ashby Early, 300

  Asia, the peach in, 13-25

  Astor, 300

  Astor, var. orig. with, 300

  Athenian Cling, 300

  Athens, 300

  Atlanta, 300

  Atwater, 300

  Atwood, 301

  Atwood, Roscius, var. orig. with, 301

  Aubinel, var. orig. with, 424

  Augbert, 301

  Augusta, 301

  Auguste Fau Jaune, 301

  Aurora, 301

  Austin, 301

  _Austin Cling_ (syn. of Austin), 301

  _Austins Late Red_ (syn. of Austin), 301

  Australian Saucer, 301

  Autour (syn. of Goshawk), 371

  _Avant-Pêche blanche_ (syn. of White Nutmeg), 491

  Avant-Pêche Jaune, 301

  _Avant-Pêche Rouge_ (syn. of Red Nutmeg), 452

  Avant-Précoce, 302

  Avant-Précoce Pavie, 302

  Avocat Collignon, 302

  Azoo Cling, 302


  Babcock, 302

  Bagby Large, 302

  Bailey, 302

  Baker Cling, 302

  Baker Early, 302

  _Baker Early May_ (syn. of Baker Early), 302

  Baldwin, 302

  Baldwin, Dr. William, var. orig. by, 302, 343

  _Baldwin Late_ (syn. of Baldwin), 302

  _Baldwin October Free_ (syn. of Baldwin), 302

  _Balsey_ (syn. of Greensboro), 222

  Balsey, W. G., var. orig. by, 222

  Baltet, 303

  Baltet, var. orig. by, 303

  Baltimore Beauty, 303

  Baltimore Rose, 303

  Bandel, 303

  Bandel, var. orig. by, 303

  Banner, 303

  Barber, 303

  Barcelona Yellow Clingstone, 303

  Barker, F. G., var. orig. with, 303, 339, 496

  Barker No. 13, 303

  Barnard, 304

  Barnes, 304

  Baron Ackenthal, 304

  Baron Dufour, 304

  Baron Pears, 304

  Baronne de Brivazac, 304

  Barr, Colonel John, var. orig. with, 304

  Barr Early, 304

  Barr Late, 304

  Barral, var. orig. by, 438

  Barrington, 304

  Barrington, var. orig. by, 304

  _Barringtoner Lieblingspfirsich_ (syn. of Barrington), 304

  _Barthélemy_ (syn. of Bertholome), 311

  Bartram, William, quoted, 42-43

  Bass, John B., var. orig. with, 485

  Bassford, Wallace, var. orig. by, 361

  Batchelder, 305

  Batchelder, William, var. orig. with, 305

  Bateham, M. B., var. orig. by, 339

  Baugh, 305

  Baumann, Eugene, var. orig. by, 315

  Baxter, Isaac B., var. orig. with, 389, 440

  Baxter, William, var. orig. with, 305

  Baxter Cling, 305

  Bayne, Dr., var. introduced by, 305

  Bayne Favorite, 305

  Bayne New Heath, 305

  Bealmear, Dr., var. orig, by, 305

  Bealmear Cling, 305

  Bear Early, 305

  Bear Late, 305

  Beatrice, 305

  Beauchamp, 305

  Beausse, Joseph, var. orig. by, 307

  Beauté de la Saulsaie, 306

  _Beauty Blush_ (syn. of Blush), 314

  Beauty of Salisbury, 306

  _Beauty of Vitry_ (syn. of Belle de Vitry), 309

  _Beauty of Zoar_ (syn. of Zoar Beauty), 497

  Beaver No. 2, 306

  Beckwith, var. orig. by, 306

  Beckwith Early, 306

  Becquett Late, 306

  _Becquette Cling_ (syn. of Bequette Cling), 310

  _Becquette Free_ (syn. of Bequette Free), 184

  _Beer_ (syn. of Beers Smock), 306

  Beer, Samuel, var. orig. with, 306

  Beer Late White Cling, 306

  Beers, Joseph, var. orig. by, 306, 395

  Beers Late, 306

  _Beers Late Melocoton_ (syn. of Beers Late), 306

  Beers Late Red Rareripe, 306

  _Beers Melcatoon_ (syn. of Beers Late), 306

  _Beers Red Rareripe_ (syn. of Beers Late Red Rareripe), 306

  Beers Smock, 306

  _Béguine de Termonde?_ (syn. of Congress), 334

  Bell Favorite, 306

  Bell October, 307

  Belle, 183

  Belle de Bade, 307

  _Belle-Bauce_ (syn. of Belle Beausse), 307

  _Belle Bausse_ (syn. of Belle Beausse), 307

  Belle de Beaucaire, 307

  _Belle Beauce_ (syn. of Belle Beausse), 307

  Belle Beausse, 307

  Belle Beauté, 307

  _Belle de Bordeaux_ (syn. of Bordeaux), 316

  Belle Cartière, 307

  Belle de Charleville, 307

  _Belle Chevreuse_ (syn. of Chevreuse), 328

  Belle Conquête, 307

  Belle de la Croix, 307

  Belle de Doué, 308

  Belle Dupont, 308

  Belle et Bonne, 308

  _Belle of Georgia_ (syn. of Belle), 183

  Belle Henri Pinaud, 308

  Belle Impériale, 308

  Belle de Liège, 308

  Belle de Logelbach, 308

  Belle de Mes Yeux, 308

  _Belle Mousseuse_ (syn. of Rendatler), 453

  Belle de Neuville, 308

  Belle d'Orbassano, 309

  Belle de Saint-Geslin, 309

  Belle de Saint-Geslin Blanche, 309

  _Belle tardive d'Auvergne_ (syn. of Tardive d'Auvergne), 476

  _Belle Tillemont_ (syn. of Tirlemonter Magdalene), 480

  _Belle Toulousaine_ (syn. of Belle de Toulouse), 309

  Belle de Toulouse, 309

  Belle de Vitry, 309

  Bellegarde, 309

  _Bellegarde_ (syn. of Galande), 365

  _Bellis_ (syn. of Belle de Vitry), 309

  Bellows, 309

  Beltzar, 309

  Beltzar Early Rareripe, 309

  Ben Hur, 310

  Benade, 310

  Benango, 310

  Bennett Rareripe, 310

  _Bequett Free_ (syn. of Bequette Free), 184

  Bequette, Benjamin, var. orig. by, 185, 310

  Bequette Cling, 310

  Bequette Free, 184

  Berckmans, 310

  Berckmans, L. E., var. orig. by, 186, 259, 280, 310, 336, 372, 393,
      429, 430, 474, 497

  Berckmans, P. J., var. introduced by, 294, 371, 434, 470, 472;
    var. orig. by, 332

  Berenice, 185

  Bergame, 310

  Bergen, 310

  _Bergen Yellow_ (syn. of Bergen), 310

  Bermuda Cling, 310

  Bernard Verlot, 310

  Bernardin de Saint-Pierre, 310

  Berry, 311

  Bertero, quoted, 65

  Bertholome, 311

  Bessie Kerr, 311

  Best June, 311

  Besy Robin, 311

  _Beure_ (syn. of Butterpfirsich), 322

  Beverly, Robert, quoted, 48-49, 82

  Beville, 311

  Bexar, 311

  Bianci di Nizza, 311

  Bickell, 311

  Biddle, 311

  Bidwell, A. I., var. orig. by, 311, 312

  Bidwell Early, 311

  Bidwell Late, 312

  Bilice, 312

  Billmeyer, 312

  Billmeyer, J. H., var. orig. by, 312

  Bilyeu, 312

  Bilyeu, var. orig. with, 312

  _Bilyeu Comet_ (syn. of Bilyeu), 312

  _Bilyeu's October_ (syn. of Bilyeu), 312

  Binney Late Red, 312

  Bird Beauty, 312

  Bishop, 312

  _Bishop Early_ (syn. of Bishop), 312

  Bivort, A., var. orig. by, 308, 315

  Black, 312

  Black, J. H., var. orig. by, 313

  Black, John J., quoted, 127-128

  Black Early, 313

  _Black Extra Early_ (syn. of Black Early), 313

  Black Seedling, 313

  Blacke, 313

  Blackmore, R. D., var. orig. by, 403

  Blake, 313

  Blanc de City, 313

  Blanchard, 313

  Blanchard, C. C. F., var. orig. by, 313

  Blanche d'Ekenholm, 313

  Blanche Énorme de Mézel, 313

  _Blanche de Morris_ (syn. of Morris White), 249

  Blanche Tardive de Sabarot, 313

  Blanton Cling, 313

  Bledsoe Early Cling, 313

  Bledsoe Seedling, 313

  Blodgett, Lorin, var. orig. by, 314

  Blodgett's Seedlings, 314

  Blondeau, 314

  Blondeau, Joseph, var. introduced by, 314

  Blood Cling, 187

  _Blood Clingstone_ (syn. of Blood Cling), 187

  Blood Free, 314

  _Blood Freestone_ (syn. of Blood Free), 314

  Blood Leaf, 188

  _Blood-leaved Peach_ (syn. of Blood Leaf), 188

  _Blood Peach_ (syn. of Blood Cling), 187

  _Bloody_ (syn. of Sanguinole), 461

  _Bloody Monsieur_ (syn. of Sanguinole), 461

  Bloor, 314

  Bloor, John, var. orig. by, 314

  Blush, 314

  Bogg, var. orig. by, 314

  Bogg Leviathan, 314

  _Bogg Mammoth_ (syn. of Bogg Leviathan), 314

  Bogue, J. T., var. introduced by, 442

  Boisselot, 314

  Boisselot, Auguste, var. orig. by, 314, 454

  Bokhara, 315

  Boley, 315

  Bollweiler Favorite, 315

  Bollweiler Magdalene, 315

  _Bollwiller de Madeleine_ (syn. of Bollweiler Magdalene), 315

  Bonanza, 315

  Bonito, 315

  Bonlez, 315

  _Bonlezer Lackpfirsich_ (syn. of Bonlez), 315

  Bonne Dame de Laeken, 316

  Bonne Gros de Noisette, 316

  Bonne Grosse, 316

  Bonne-Julie, 316

  Bonneuil, 316

  _Bonneuil Lackpfirsich_ (syn. of Bonneuil), 316

  Bonouvrier, 316

  Bonouvrier, var. orig. with, 316

  Boon, Joel, var. orig. with, 301

  Boquier, 316

  Bordeaux, 316

  _Bordeaux Cling_ (syn. of Bordeaux), 316

  Boswell, quoted, 110

  Böttchers Frühpfirsich, 316

  Bourdeaux, 316

  _Boudin_ (syn. of Bourdine), 317

  _Bourdin Lackpfirsich_ (syn. of Bourdine), 317

  Bourdine, 317

  Bourdine Royale, 317

  Bowers Early, 317

  _Bowslaugh_ (syn. of Bowslaugh Late), 317

  Bowslaugh Late, 317

  Boyd Early, 317

  Boyles, 317

  Boyles, James, var. orig. with, 317

  Brackett, 317

  Braddick American, 317

  Braddick New York, 317

  Braddick Red, 317

  Braddick South American, 318

  Braddick Summer, 318

  _Braddick's North American_ (syn. of Braddick American), 317

  Bradley, 318

  Brahy, Madam, var. orig. by, 469

  Brainard Large Yellow, 318

  Brandy, 318

  Brandywine, 318

  Brant, 318

  Braunauer Lackpfirsich, 318

  Braunauer Magdalene, 318

  _Braunauer Rote Frühe Pfirsich_ (syn. of Braunauer Lackpfirsich), 318

  Bray, D., var. orig. with, 318

  Bray Rareripe, 318

  _Bray White_ (syn. of Bray Rareripe), 318

  Brett, 318

  Brevoort, 319

  Brevoort, Henry, var. orig. by, 319

  _Brevoort Seedling Melter_ (syn. of Brevoort), 319

  Brevoort Seedling Pound, 319

  Brice, Dr. S. M., var. orig. by, 319

  Brice Early, 319

  Brigdon, 189

  _Brigg's Early May_ (syn. of Briggs), 319

  Briggs, 319

  _Briggs_ (syn. of Briggs Red May), 319

  _Briggs_ (syn. of Governor Briggs), 372

  Briggs, John G., var. orig. with, 319

  _Briggs' May_ (syn. of Briggs), 319

  Briggs Red May, 319

  Bright, 319

  Bright, Charles E., var. orig. by, 319

  Brodie, 319

  Bronough Cling, 319

  Bronzée, 319

  Brooks, 319

  Brooks, var. orig. by, 319

  Brown, 320

  Brown, Orrin, var. orig. with, 320

  Brown, W. L., var. orig. by, 320

  _Brown Best_ (syn. of Brown Choice), 320

  Brown Choice, 320

  Brown Early, 320

  Brown Nutmeg, 320

  Browns Frühpfirsich, 320

  Bruce, quoted, 48

  Brunson, 320

  Buck, 320

  Buck, L. W., var. orig. by, 320

  _Buck Prolific_ (syn. of Decker), 340

  Buckeye, 320

  _Buckingham Mignonne_ (syn. of Barrington), 304

  Buckinghamshire Minion, 320

  Budd, J. L., var. introduced by, 315, 496

  Buisson, Charles, var. orig. by, 292, 326, 359, 402

  Bullard, 320

  Bullard, var. orig. with, 320

  Bullard Cling, 320

  Bullmann Aprikosenpfirsich, 320

  Buonaparte, 320

  Buonaparte, Joseph, var. introduced by, 320

  Burbank, Luther, var. orig. by, 258

  Burchell Early, 321

  Burdock, 321

  Burford October Cling, 321

  Burgess Beauty, 321

  Burke, 321

  Burkhardt, John, var. orig. by, 311

  Burlington Large Early, 321

  Burnap, 321

  Burns, 321

  Burns, Mrs. L., var. orig. by, 355

  Burns, T. F., var. introduced by, 479;
    var. orig. by, 321

  Burrough, 321

  Burton, Dr. E. L., var. orig. by, 343

  Buski, 321

  Bustian October, 321

  Butler, J. T., var. orig. with, 321

  Butler Late, 321

  Butterpfirsich, 322

  Buttram, 322


  C. Cling, 322

  Cabin, 322

  Cable, 322

  Cable, E., var. orig. by, 322

  Cable Early, 322

  _Cable Late_ (syn. of Cable), 322

  _Cable Late Malacatune_ (syn. of Cable), 322

  Cable Medium Melocoton, 322

  Cabler Indian, 322

  _Calaway_ (syn. of Calloway Cling), 322

  California, 322

  Callie Scaff, 322

  Calloway Cling, 322

  Camak Serrate, 323

  _Camak Red Twigged_ (syn. of Camak Serrate), 323

  _Cambray_ (syn. of Cambria), 323

  Cambria, 323

  Cambridge Belle, 323

  Camden Superb, 323

  Camelia, 323

  Campbell, 323

  Campbell, Judge, var. orig. by, 217, 323, 470, 472

  Canada, 190

  _Canadische Frühpfirsich_ (syn. of Canada), 190

  Canary, 323

  Canner Choice, 323

  Cannon, 323

  Cannon, H. P., var. orig. with, 323

  Caper, 323

  Capital, 323

  Capps, 324

  Capps Brothers, var. introduced by, 324, 418

  Captain Ede, 191

  _Cardinal de Furstemberg_ (syn. of Sanguine), 460

  Cardinale, 324

  _Cardinale_ (syn. of Sanguine), 460

  Carey Mammoth Cling, 324

  Carl Late, 324

  Carl Wredow, 324

  Carlisle, 324

  Carman, 193

  Carmine, 324

  Carnation, 324

  Caroline Beauty, 324

  Caroline Incomparable, 324

  Carolinen Härtling, 325

  Carpenter, 325

  Carpenter, Charles, var. orig. with, 295, 325

  Carpenter, William S., var. introduced by, 325

  _Carpenter Cling_ (syn. of Carpenter), 325

  _Carpenter Late_ (syn. of Carpenter White), 325

  Carpenter Red Rareripe, 325

  Carpenter White, 325

  Carrelet, var. orig. by, 310

  Carroll, var. orig. with, 419

  Carroll Late, 325

  Carson, 325

  Carter Large, 325

  Cartière, Madame, var. orig. with, 307

  Caruth Late, 325

  _Cass_ (syn. of Chili), 197

  Catharine, 325

  _Catharinen-Lackpfirsich_ (syn. of Catharine), 325.

  Catline, 325

  Cécile, 326

  Cécile Mignonne, 326

  _Cedar County Hardy_ (syn. of Bailey), 302

  Célestin Port, 326

  Centennial, 326

  _Chair Choice_ (syn. of Chairs), 194

  _Chair's Choice_ (syn. of Chairs), 194

  Chairs, 194

  Chairs, Franklin, var. orig. by, 194

  Chairs' Choice (syn. of Chairs), 194

  Chalmer Yellow Free, 326

  Champion, 195

  Champion (of Michigan), 326

  Chancellor, 326

  Chapman, 326

  Charles Ingouf, 327

  Charles Rongé, 327

  _Charles Schwarzenberg_ (syn. of Karl Schwarzenberg), 393

  Chas. Wood, 327

  _Charlestowner Ananaspfirsche_ (syn. of Pineapple), 443

  Charlotte, 327

  Chartreux, 327

  Chase Early, 327

  Chaucer, quoted, 35

  Chazotte, 327

  Chelcie Cling, 327

  Cherokee, 327

  Cherry Peach, 327

  Chevalier, var. orig. with, 308

  Chevreau, Arthur, var. orig. by, 300, 438

  Chevreuse, 328

  Chevreuse Clingstone, 328

  Chevreuse à Feuilles Cloquées, 328

  Chevreuse Hâtive, 328

  _Chevreuse Hâtive_ (syn. of Chevreuse), 328

  Chevreuse Tardive, 328

  Chick, I. W. & R. S., var. orig. by, 328, 339

  Chick Early Cling, 328

  Chili, 197

  Chili No. 2, 329

  Chili No. 3, 329

  Chilian, 329

  Chilow, 329

  Chilson, 329

  Chinese Blood, 329

  Chinese Cling, 198

  Chinese Crooked, 329

  _Chinese Flat_ (syn. of Peento), 261

  Chinese Free, 200

  Chinese Peach, 329

  _Chinese Peach_ (syn. of Chinese Cling), 198

  Chisolm, 330

  Chisolm, W. H., var. orig. with, 330

  Choate, R., quoted, 106

  Christiana, 330

  Christmas Seedling, 330

  _Church_ (syn. of President Church), 446

  Church, Rev. A., var. orig. by, 446

  Cibot, quoted, 8, 20

  Citry à Fruit Blanc, 330

  Clara, 330

  Clara Mayer, 330

  Clarissa, 330

  Clark, Lewis, var. orig. with, 330

  Clark Early, 330

  Clarke, 330

  Clarke, A., var. orig. with, 330

  Claudine Willermoz, 330

  Cleffey Allen, 331

  Clémence Isaure, 331

  Cleveland I, 331

  Cleveland II, 331

  Clifton Park, 331

  Climax, 201

  Clingman May, 331

  Clinton, 331

  Cobb Mignonne, 331

  Cobbler, 331

  Coe Golden Cling, 332

  Coggin Early, 332

  Coigneau, 332

  Cole, 332

  _Cole Early_ (syn. of Cole), 332

  _Cole Early Red_ (syn. of Cole), 332

  Cole Large Yellow, 332

  Cole White, 332

  Cole White Melocoton, 332

  Coleman, 332

  Coleman, Thomas, var. orig. by, 332

  Colerane, 332

  Collinson, Peter, quoted, 57

  Colmar, 332

  Colon, 332

  Colonel Ansley, 333

  Colonel McFarland, 333

  Colonel Tom Ruffin, 333

  Columbia, 333

  Columbus June, 333

  Columella, quoted, 27

  Comet, 333

  Comice d'Angers, 333

  Comice de Bourbourg, 334

  Compton Pure Gold, 334

  Comte d'Ansembourg, 334

  Comte de Neperg, 334

  Comtesse de Hainaut, 334

  Comtesse de Montijo, 334

  Con Cling, 334

  Condor, 334

  Congress, 334

  Conkling, 334

  Conkling, E. M., var. introduced by, 334

  Connecticut, 335

  Connett, 335

  Connett, Rev. Alfred, var. orig. with, 335

  _Connett Early_ (syn. of Connett), 335

  _Conner Cling_ (syn. of Connor White), 335

  Connor White, 335

  Conover, 335

  Cook, J. C., var. orig. by, 423

  Cook, J. S., var. orig. by, 335

  Cook Late, 335

  _Cook Late White_ (syn. of Cook Late), 335

  Cook Seedling, 335

  Cooley Mammoth, 335

  _Cooledge's Favorite_ (syn. of Coolidge), 336

  Coolidge, 336

  Coolidge, Joshua, var. orig. by, 336

  Coolidge Mammoth, 336

  _Coolidge's Favorite_ (syn. of Coolidge), 336

  Cooner, 336

  Cooper Early, 336

  Cooper Late, 336

  Cooper Mammoth, 336

  Cooper Manet, 336

  Cora, 336

  Cora Wright, 336

  Corbeil, 336

  Corbet, Robert, var. orig. by, 425

  Corlett, 336

  Corlett, var. orig. by, 336

  Cornelia, 337

  Corner, 337

  Corner, William, var. orig. by, 337

  Corosa, 337

  Corriell, 337

  Cothelstone Seedling, 337

  Coulombier, 337

  Coulter, Thomas, quoted, 59-60

  Countess, 337

  Counts, 337

  Counts, H. H., var. orig. with, 337

  Coupers, 337

  _Coursoner Magdalene_ (syn. of Red Magdalen), 451

  Couturier, Jean-Denis, var. orig. by, 469

  Cowan Late, 337

  Cox Cling, 337

  Cox October, 337

  Coxe, Dr., var. orig. by, 400, 455

  Coxe, William, life of, 254-255;
    quoted, 120, 254-255, var. orig. by, 333

  _Crane_ (syn. of St. John), 269

  Crawford, William, var. orig. by, 205, 240

  _Crawford's Early_ (syn. of Early Crawford), 205

  _Crawford's Early Melocoton_ (syn. of Early Crawford), 205

  _Crawford's Late_ (syn. of Late Crawford), 240

  _Crawford's Late Melocoton_ (syn. of Late Crawford), 240

  _Crawford's Superb Malacatune_ (syn. of Late Crawford), 240

  Cream, 337

  Crimson Beauty I, 337

  Crimson Beauty II, 338

  Crimson Galande, 338

  _Crimson Mignonne_ (syn. of Crimson Galande), 338

  Crockett, 338

  _Crockett Late_ (syn. of Crockett), 338

  _Crockett Late White_ ( syn. of Crockett), 338

  Crofts Golden, 338

  Cromwell, var. introduced by, 338

  Cromwell Seedling, 338

  Crosby, 202

  Crosby, var. introduced by, 203

  Crothers, 338

  Crothers, var. orig. with, 338

  Crown, 338

  Cumberland, 338

  Curtis, 338

  Cushing, Dr., var. orig. by, 496

  Cutter, 339

  _Cutter's Yellow_ (syn. of Yellow Rareripe), 289


  Dabezac, 339

  Dad, 339

  Dagmar, 339

  Daniels, E. T., var. orig. by, 337, 413, 428

  Darby, 339

  Darby, G., var. orig. by, 396

  Darwin, Charles, quoted, 12, 65

  Daun, 339

  David Hill, 339

  Davidson, 204

  Davidson, G. W., var. orig. with, 204

  Davidson No. 1, 339

  Davidson No. 2, 339

  Davis, R. A., quoted, 64-65

  Dawson, 339

  Dawson Early, 339

  Day Yellow Free, 339

  De Candolle, quoted, 6, 81

  _De Chang-Hai_ (syn. of Chinese Cling), 198

  De Citry, 340

  De Corsa Heath, 340

  _D'Egypt_ (syn. of Pêche de Syrie), 438

  De Ferrières, 340

  De Gloria, 340

  De Grillet, 340

  De Halle, 340

  D'Ispahan à Fleurs Simples, 340

  De Napier, 340

  _De Smyrne_ (syn. of Unique), 482

  De Thoissey, 340

  De Tondensis, 340

  De Trianon, 340

  De Tullias, 340

  De Zelhern, 340

  Deaconess, 340

  Dean, Martin, var. orig. by, 340

  Dean Brothers, var. orig. by, 340

  Dean Orange, 340

  Dean Red Free, 340

  December, 340

  Decker, 340

  Dekenhoven Pfirsich, 341

  Delavan White, 341

  Delaware, 341

  Delloyer, Henri, var. introduced by, 474

  Deming, 341

  _Deming Orange_ (syn. of Deming), 341

  _Deming September_ (syn. of Deming), 341

  Demouilles, 341

  Demouilles, var. orig. with, 341

  Dennis, 341

  Denton, 341

  Désiré Vitry, 342

  Desportes, Baptiste, var. orig. by, 416

  Despot, 342

  Desprez, 342

  Desse, var. orig. by, 342, 351

  _Desse Hâtive_ (syn. of Early Purple), 351

  Desse Tardive, 342

  _Dewey_ (syn. of Admiral Dewey), 178

  Dewey Cling, 342

  Dey, 342

  Di Carema Giallo, 342

  Diamond, 342

  Diana, 342

  Dickenson, O., var. orig. with, 349

  Dimia-Chatenay, var. orig. by, 308

  Dix, 342

  Dixie, 342

  Docteur Burkard, 343

  Docteur Krans, 343

  Docteur Lucas, 343

  _Dr. Berckmans_ (syn. of Berckmans), 310

  _Dr. Black_ (syn. of Black), 312

  Dr. Burton, 343

  Dr. Cummings, 343

  Dr. Graham White Freestone, 343

  Dr. Hogg, 343

  Dr. Pilkington, 343

  Dr. Tomlinson, 343

  Domergue, 343

  Domergue, var. orig. by, 343

  Donahoo, 343

  Donegal, 344

  Doom, Judge, var. orig. with, 357

  _Doppelter Bergpfirsich_ (syn. of Double Mountain), 344

  Dorothy, 344

  Dorsetshire Mignonne, 344

  Double Blanche de Fortune, 344

  Double Cramoisie de Fortune, 344

  Double Jaune, 344

  Double Mountain, 344

  _Double Swalsh_ (syn. of Swalsh), 475

  _Double de Troyes_ (syn. of Petite Mignonne), 441

  Dougall, James, var. orig. with, 456

  Dowling, 345

  Dowling, John, var. orig. by, 444

  _Dowling June_ (syn. of Dowling), 345

  Down Easter, 344

  Downer, 344

  Downing, 345

  Downing, A. J., quoted, 242

  Drain Seedling, 345

  Drap d'Or, 345

  _Drap d'or Esperen_ (syn. of Drap d'Or), 345

  Druid Hill, 345

  Du Lin, 346

  Du Moulin, 346

  Du Quesnoy, 346

  Du Thiers, 346

  Duboisviolette, 345

  Duboscq, 345

  Duchess of Cornwall, 345

  _Duchess of York_ (syn. of Duchess of Cornwall), 345

  Duchesse de Galliera, 345

  Dudley, quoted, 56-57

  Duff, 346

  _Duff Yellow_ (syn. of Duff), 346

  Dufour, Baron, var. orig. with, 304

  Duggar, 346

  _Duggar Golden_ (syn. of Duggar), 346

  Duggar White, 346

  Duke of Marlborough, 346

  Duke of York, 346

  Dulany, 346

  Dulce, 346

  Dumas, var. orig. by, 484

  Dumont, 347

  Dumont, Peter, var. orig. by, 347

  Dun, 347

  Dunlap, 347

  Dunnington Beauty, 347

  Duperron, 347

  Duperron, var. orig. by, 347, 434

  Durasme, 347

  Durchsichtiger Lieblingspfirsich, 347

  Durham Favorite, 347

  Dutchess, 347

  _Duveteuse Jaune_ (syn. of Duff), 346

  Dwarf Aubinel, 347

  Dwarf Champion, 348

  Dwarf Cuba, 348

  Dwarf Orleans, 348

  Dyer June, 348

  Dymond, 348


  Eagle Red, 348

  Earliest Mignonne, 348

  _Earliest Red Cling_ (syn. of Early Red Cling), 351

  _Earliest White Nutmeg_ (syn. of White Nutmeg), 491

  Early, 348

  _Early Admirable_ (syn. of Admirable), 292

  _Early Albert_ (syn. of Albert), 293

  Early Alfred, 348

  _Early Anne_ (syn. of Anne), 298

  _Early Arlington_ (syn. of Arlington), 299

  Early Ascot, 348

  Early Avant, 348

  _Early Barnard_ (syn. of Barnard), 304

  _Early Beatrice_ (syn. of Beatrice), 305

  Early Beauty, 348

  _Early Belle_ (syn. of Hiley), 227

  Early Bourdine, 348

  _Early Canada_ (syn. of Canada), 190

  Early Charlotte, 349

  Early Chelmsford, 349

  Early Chevalier, 349

  Early China, 349

  Early Crawford, 205

  Early Crawford Seedling No. 1, 349

  Early Crawford Seedling No. 3, 349

  Early Cream, 349

  Early Cronesteyn, 349

  Early Curtis, 349

  Early Downton, 349

  _Early Favourite?_ (syn. of Favourite), 358

  Early Free, 350

  _Early George_ (syn. of Early Royal George), 352

  _Early Grosse Mignonne_ (syn. of Frühe Mignonne), 364

  Early Imperial, 350

  Early Leopold, 350

  _Early Lewis_ (syn. of Lewis), 403

  Early Louise, 350

  Early Lydia, 350

  _Early Malden_ (syn. of Malden), 412

  Early Michigan, 350

  _Early Mignonne_ (syn. of Frühe Mignonne), 364

  Early Miners, 350

  _Early Newington_ (syn. of Smith Newington), 467

  Early Newington Free, 350

  _Early Orange Peach_ (syn. of Yellow Rareripe), 289

  Early Purple, 351

  Early Rareripe I, 351

  Early Rareripe II, 351

  Early Red I, 351

  Early Red II, 351

  Early Red Cling, 351

  _Early Red Rareripe_ (syn. of Red Rareripe), 452

  _Early Red Rareripe of Rhoades_ (syn. of Red Rareripe), 452

  _Early Rivers_ (syn. of Rivers), 266

  _Early Robinson Crusoe_ (syn. of Robinson Crusoe), 455

  Early Rose I, 351

  Early Rose II, 351

  Early Rose III, 352

  Early Royal George, 352

  Early Sam, 352

  _Early Savoy_ (syn. of Savoy), 461

  Early Silver, 352

  Early Strawberry, 352

  _Early Sweetwater_ (syn. of Sweet Water), 475

  Early Tallman, 352

  _Early Tillotson_ (syn. of Tillotson), 479

  _Early Toledo_ (syn. of Toledo), 480

  Early de Tours, 352

  _Early Victor_ (syn. of Victor), 485

  Early Victoria, 352

  _Early Vineyard_ (syn. of Grosse Mignonne), 375

  Early Wheeler, 352

  Early White, 353

  Early White Cling, 353

  _Early Yellow Alberge_ (syn. of Avant-Pêche Jaune), 301

  _Early Yellow Malacatune_ (syn. of Red Cheek Melocoton), 264

  _Early Yellow Nutmeg_ (syn. of Yellow Nutmeg), 496

  Early York, 206

  Eastburn, Rev. Joseph, var. orig. by, 353

  Eastburn Choice, 353

  Eaton, 353

  _Eaton Golden_ (syn. of Eaton), 353

  Ede, Captain Henry, var. orig. by, 192

  Edgar Late Melting, 353

  Edgemont, 208

  _Edgemont Beauty_ (syn. of Edgemont), 208

  Edith, 353

  _Edle Magdalene_ (syn. of Noblesse), 427

  _Edlepfirsche_ (syn. of Noblesse), 427

  Edouard Andre, 353

  Eduard Lucas, 353

  Edward Late White, 353

  Eladie, 353

  Elate, 354

  Elberta, 209

  Elberta (Hottes), 354

  Elberta Cling, 354

  Eldred, 354

  Eldred, var. orig. by, 354

  Elisabeth Bonamy, 354

  Eliza I, 354

  Eliza II, 354

  Ellison, 354

  Ellwanger & Barry, var. orig. with, 279

  Elma, 355

  Elmira, 355

  Elmo, 355

  Elodie, 355

  Elriv, 355

  Elrose, 355

  Ely, 355

  _Emérillon_ (syn. of Merlin), 416

  Emil Liebig, 355

  Emma, 355

  _Emperor_ (syn. of Unique), 482

  _Emperor of Russia_ (syn. of Unique), 482

  Emporia, 355

  Endicott, 355

  Engle, 211

  Engle, C. C., var. orig. by, 211, 292, 329, 349, 351, 354, 377, 392,
      393, 398, 400, 417, 423, 436, 446

  Engle, H. M., var. orig. with, 345, 492

  _Engle-Chili_ (syn. of Chili No. 2), 329

  _Englischer Lackpfirsich_ (syn. of Lemon Cling), 401

  English, 355

  _English Chancellor_ (syn. of Chancellor), 326

  English Swash, 356

  _Engol's Mammoth_ (syn. of Engle), 211

  Enon, 356

  Equinox, 356

  Ermine, 356

  Ernoult, 356

  Ernst, 356

  Erzherzog Carl, 356

  Erzherzog Johann, 356

  Espagne Jaune, 356

  Essex Mammoth, 356

  Estella, 356

  Esther, 356

  Esther Doom, 357

  _Eugen von Savoyen_ (syn. of Prince Eugène), 447

  Eureka, 212

  Evangelist, 357

  Evans, 357

  Evans, J. C., var. orig. with, 369

  Evans Cling, 357

  _Evans No. 3_ (syn. of Evans), 357

  Evelyn, Robert, quoted, 46

  Everbearing, 357

  Excellente, 357

  Excelsior, 357

  _Excelsior_ (syn. of Crosby), 202

  Exquisite, 357

  Extra Early, 358


  Fabre, 358

  Fahnestock, 358

  Fahnestock, A., var. orig. with, 358

  Fahnestock Mammoth, 358

  Falcon, 358

  Fame, 358

  Family Favorite, 213

  Fanning, 358

  Farrnbacher Lackpfirsich, 358

  _Faucon_ (syn. of Falcon), 358

  Faut, 358

  Favier, 358

  Favourite, 358

  _Favourite Large Red Clingstone?_ (syn. of Favourite), 358

  Favourite Red (syn. of Favourite), 358

  Fay, Lincoln, var. orig. by, 359

  Fay Early Anne, 359

  Fei Tau, 359

  Felicie, 359

  Felt, Cyrus, var. orig. with, 359

  Felt Rareripe, 359

  Fenwick, George, quoted, 56

  Ferdinand, 359

  Fetters, 359

  Fetters, John, var. orig. by, 359

  Fine Jaboulay, 359

  Finley October, 359

  Finley Superb, 360

  Fisher, 360

  Fitzgerald, 214

  Flagg, W. C., var. orig. by, 400

  _Flat Peach of China_ (syn. of Peento), 261

  _Flater's St. John_ (syn. of St. John), 269

  Fleenor, 360

  _Fleitas St. John_ (syn. of St. John), 269

  Flewellen, 360

  Florence, 360

  Florida, 360

  _Florida Crawford_ (syn. of Florida), 360

  Florida Gem, 360

  Florida Own, 360

  Florin, 360

  Floss, 360

  Floy, Michael, var. introduced by, 488;
    var. orig. by, 482

  Floyd, 361

  Flushing Heath, 361

  Ford, 361

  Ford Choice, 361

  Ford Late, 361

  Ford No. 1, 361

  Ford No. 2, 361

  Ford No. 3, 361

  Ford Red, 362

  Ford Seedling, 362

  Fords, 362

  Fords Improved, 362

  Forrester, 362

  Fortune, Robert, var. introduced by, 199

  Foster, 216

  Foster, J. T., var. orig. with, 216

  _Foster's Seedling_ (syn. of Foster), 216

  Four in One, 362

  Fourteen Ounce, 362

  Fox, 362

  _Fox's Seedling_ (syn. of Fox), 362

  Frances, 362

  _Francis_ (syn. of Frances), 362

  Frank, 363

  Frankfort, 363

  Franklin, 363

  Franklin, Mrs. L. A., var. orig. by, 388, 436

  Franquières, 363

  Franz Koelitz, 363

  Fredenburgh, 363

  Fredenburgh, W. H., var. orig. by, 363

  Free Mason, 363

  Freehold, 363

  Freeman, 363

  Freeman, H. C., var. orig. by, 363

  _Freeman Late_ (syn. of Freeman), 363

  Freeman White, 363

  _Freestone_ (syn. of Chevreuse à Feuilles Cloquées), 328

  _French Blood_ (syn. of Sanguinole), 461

  French Blood Cling, 363

  French Chancellor, 363

  French Mignonne, 364

  French Willow Leaved, 364

  Friday, Jacob, var. orig. by, 302

  _Friday Seedling_ (syn. of Bailey), 302

  Friers, 364

  Fritze, August, var. orig. by, 392

  Fritzes Sämling, 364

  Frogmore Golden, 364

  _Fromentiner Lieblingspfirsich_ (syn. of Vineuse de Fromentin), 485

  Frühe aus der Ortenau, 364

  _Frühe Hollandische_ (syn. of Hâtive de Holland), 379

  _Frühe Lieblingspfirsich_ (syn. of Frühe Mignonne), 364

  Frühe May von Brigg, 364

  Frühe Mignonne, 364

  _Frühe Montagne?_ (syn. of White Nutmeg), 491

  _Frühe Peruvianerin_ (syn. of Chevreuse Hâtive), 328

  _Frühe Purpurfirsche_ (syn. of Early Purple), 351

  _Früher Aprikosenpfirsich_ (syn. of Avant-Pêche Jaune), 301

  Früher Bergpfirsich, 364

  _Früher peruanischer Lackpfirsich_ (syn. of Chevreuse Hâtive), 328

  Fruitland, 365

  Fulkerson, 365

  Fulkerson, R. P., var. orig. by, 365

  Fullers Galande, 365

  Furness, 365


  G. & A., 365

  G. Orange Cling, 365

  Gaillard-Girerd I, 365

  Gaillard-Girerd II, 365

  Gain de Montreuil, 365

  Galande, 365

  _Galande von Montreuil_ (syn. of Gain de Montreuil), 365

  Galande Pointue, 366

  Galbraith, 366

  Galland May, 366

  Galopin, var. introduced by, 327;
    var. orig. by, 481

  Galveston, 366

  Gant Noir, 366

  Garden Cling, 366

  _Garfield_ (syn. of Brigdon), 189

  Garver, B. F., var. orig. by, 428

  Gass, S. M., var. orig. with, 428

  Gates, J. W., var. orig. by, 366, 375

  Gates Cling, 366

  Gather Late October, 366

  Gaujard, N., var. orig. with, 410

  Gauthier, var. orig. by, 334

  Gaylord, 366

  Geary, 367

  _Gearys Hold-On_ (syn. of Geary), 367

  Gebhardt, 367

  Gebhardt, Benton, var. orig. by, 367

  _Gelbe Frühpfirsche_ (syn. of Avant-Pêche Jaune), 301

  _Gelbe Pfirsche_ (syn. of Alberge), 293

  _Gelbe Wunderschöne_ (syn. of Yellow Admirable), 495

  _Gelber Aprikosenpfirsich_ (syn. of Yellow Admirable), 495

  Gem, 367

  _Gemeiner Blutpfirsich_ (syn. of Sanguinole), 461

  _Gemeiner Lieblingspfirsich_ (syn. of Grosse Mignonne), 375

  Gemina, 367

  General Bidwell, 367

  General Custer, 367

  General Grant, 367

  General Greene, 367

  General Harrison, 367

  _General Jackson_ (syn. of Stonewall Jackson), 472

  General Landon, 368

  General Lee, 217

  General Taylor, 368

  Genesee, 368

  Genueser, 368

  _Genueser Aprikosenpfirsich_ (syn. of Genueser), 368

  George IV, 218

  George Late, 368

  _George the Fourth_ (syn. of George IV), 218

  _Georgia_ (syn. of Belle), 183

  Georgia Press, 368

  Gerarde, John, quoted, 36-37;
    varieties of peaches mentioned by, 36

  Gest Superb, 368

  Gestreifter Blutpfirsich, 368

  Gettysburg, 368

  _Gewöhnliche Blutpfirsich_ (syn. of Sanguinole), 461

  Gibbon, 368

  Gibbon October, 368

  Gibson, 368

  Gibson, Eugene, var. orig. by, 326, 368

  Gibson Late, 369

  Gibson Seedling, 369

  Gill, var. orig. with, 218

  Gillingham, 369

  Gilman Early, 369

  Gilmore, 369

  Gladstone, 369

  Glasgow, 369

  Glen, 369

  Glen Saint Mary Nurseries, var. orig. with, 282

  Glendale, 369

  Globe, 369

  Godbey, T. K., var. orig. by, 330, 391, 486

  Goff, E. S., quoted, 149

  _Gold and Purple_ (syn. of Golden Purple), 370

  Gold Ball, 369

  Gold Drop, 219

  Gold Dust, 369

  Gold Mine, 370

  Golden, 370

  Golden Ampère, 370

  Golden Ball, 370

  Golden Belt, 370

  Golden Cling, 370

  Golden Cuba, 370

  _Golden Drop_ (syn. of Gold Drop), 219

  Golden Eagle, 370

  Golden Gate, 370

  Golden Purple, 370

  Golden Rareripe, 371

  Golden Sweet Cling, 371

  _Goldfinch_ (syn. of Stark Early Elberta), 470

  Goode, 371

  _Goode October_ (syn. of Goode), 371

  Gooding, 371

  Gooding, var. orig. by, 371

  Gordon, 371

  Gorgas, 371

  Goshawk, 371

  Gough Late Red Clingstone, 372

  Governor, 372

  _Governor_ (syn. of Governor Hogg), 221

  Governor Briggs, 372

  Governor Campbell, 372

  Governor Garland, 372

  Governor Hogg, 221

  Governor Hubbard, 372

  Governor Lanham, 372

  Governor Phelps, 372

  Graham, M. J., var. orig. with, 419

  Grand Admirable, 372

  Grand Carnation, 372

  Grand Monarque, 372

  Grand Reporter, 373

  Grandeville, 373

  Granger, 373

  Grant, var. orig. with, 373

  Grant Cling, 373

  Grant Large Yellow, 373

  Grauer Pfirsich, 373

  Graven Red Cheek Cling, 373

  Graves, 373

  Graves, T. H., var. orig. with, 374

  Graves, William, var. orig. by, 373

  _Graves Early_ (syn. of Graves), 373

  _Graves Semi-Cling_ (syn. of Graves), 373

  Gravier, var. orig. with, 410

  Gray, 373

  Great Eastern, 373

  Great Northern, 373

  Great Western, 373

  Great White, 373

  Green Catharine, 374

  _Green Nutmeg_ (syn. of Anne), 298

  Green Rareripe; 374

  Green Winter, 374

  Greening Brothers, var. introduced by, 262

  Greensboro, 222

  Gregory, 374

  Gregory, C. T., quoted, 74-75

  Gregory, William, var. introduced by, 374

  _Gregory Late_ (syn. of Gregory), 374

  Gresham, 374

  Griffin, George W., var. introduced by, 220

  Griffing Brothers, var. orig. with, 379, 415, 470

  Griffing No. 4, 374

  _Griffith_ (syn. of Susquehanna), 475

  Griffith, var. orig. by, 475

  Grimes, 374

  _Grimwood's Royal George_ (syn. of Grosse Mignonne), 375

  Griswold, 374

  _Grosse Blutpfirsche_ (syn. of Cardinale), 324

  Grosse Bourdine, 374

  Grosse Charlestowner Ananaspfirsche (syn. of Pineapple), 443

  Grosse Gallande, 374

  Grosse Madeleine Lepére, 374

  _Grosse-Madeline_ (syn. of Bollweiler Magdalene), 315

  _Grosse Mignon Pfirsich_ (syn. of Grosse Mignonne), 375

  Grosse Mignonne, 374

  Grosse Mignonne Lepére, 375

  Grosse Mignonne Saint-Cyr, 375

  Grosse Montagne Précoce, 375

  _Grosse Noire de Montreuil_ (syn. of Galande), 365

  _Grosse Perseque_ (syn. of Persique), 440

  _Grosse Pourprée_ (syn. of Late Purple), 400

  _Grosse rothe Frühpfirsche_ (syn. of Petite Mignonne), 441

  Grosse de Stresa, 375

  _Grosse Violette Hâtive_ (syn. of Violet Hâtive), 485

  Grosse de Vitry, 375

  Grosser Blutpfirsich, 375

  _Grosser Pavien-Aprikosenpfirsich_ (syn. of Pavie Jaune), 434

  Grosster Aprikosenpfirsich, 375

  Grover Cleveland, 375

  Grover Red, 376

  Grubbs Cling, 376

  Guadalupe, 376

  Gudgeon, 376

  Guespin, 376

  Guilloux, var. orig, by, 387

  Guinn, 376

  Guinn, var. orig. by, 376

  Gulley, 376

  Gulley, A. G., var. introduced by, 376

  Gullis, Benjamin, var. orig. with, 371

  Gurney, 376

  Gurney, C. A., var. orig. with, 376

  Gustave Thuret, 376

  _Guter grosser Lackpfirsich_ (syn. of Bonne Gros de Noisette), 316


  Haas, 376

  Hacker Seedling, 377

  Hague, 377

  Haines, 377

  _Haines' Early Red_ (syn. of Haines), 377

  Hale, 377

  Hale, Col. E., var, orig. with, 377

  Hale, J. H., var. introduced by, 285;
    var. orig. with, 234

  _Hale_ (syn. of Hale Early), 223

  Hale Early, 223

  Hale Oblong, 377

  Hale Rareripe, 377

  Hale Round, 377

  _Hale's Melocoton_ (syn. of Hale), 377

  Hall, 377

  Hall, L. P., var. introduced by, 468

  Hall, M., var. orig. with, 344

  Hall, R. C., var. orig. by, 377

  _Hall Down-Easter_ (syn. of Down Easter), 344

  _Hall Yellow_ (syn. of Hall), 377

  Halliday, 377

  Halsteads Early, 378

  Hamilton, Alexander, var. introduced by, 462

  Hamner, 378

  Hance, 378

  _Hance Golden_ (syn. of Hance), 378

  _Hance Golden Rareripe_ (syn. of Hance), 378

  Hance Smock, 378

  Hancock, Thomas, var. introduced by, 472

  Hannah, 378

  Hannah, William, var. orig. by, 378

  Hape, Dr. Samuel, var. orig. by, 378

  Hape, Early, 378

  Hardy White Tuscany, 378

  Harker, 378

  _Harker Seedling_ (syn. of Harker), 378

  Harper Early, 378

  Harris, Julius, var. orig. with, 431

  Harris Early, 378

  Harris Winter, 378

  Harrison, C. W., var. orig. by, 367

  Harrison, H. E., var. orig. with, 480

  Harter Blutpfirsich, 379

  _Härtling Aprikosenpfirsich_ (syn. of Pavie Alberge), 434

  _Härtlings Magdalene_ (syn. of Smith Newington), 467

  Hartshorn, 379

  Hartshorn, J., var. introduced by, 379

  Hastings, 379

  Hastings Rareripe, 379

  Hatch, 379

  Hatch, A. T., var. orig. with, 370

  Hatch, S. O., var. orig. with, 379

  Hathaway, B., var. orig. by, 417

  Hâtive d'Aikelin, 379

  Hâtive de Chine, 379

  Hâtive de Ferrières, 379

  Hâtive de Gaillard, 379

  _Hâtive de Gascogne_ (syn. of Comice d'Angers), 333

  Hâtive de Holland, 379

  Hâtive Lepère, 379

  Hatt, 380

  Haun Golden, 380

  Haupt, 380

  Haupt, William W., var. orig. by, 295, 380

  Haupt Seedlings, 380

  Hawkins Winter, 380

  Heath, General, var. orig. with, 226

  _Heath_ (syn. of Heath Cling), 224

  _Heath_ (syn. of Heath Free), 226

  Heath Cling, 224

  Heath Free, 226

  Heath Ringold, 380

  Heberle Brothers, var. introduced by, 268

  Heckel, 380

  Heckel, George, var. orig. by, 380

  Heep, T., var. orig. by, 429

  Heim Lackpfirsich, 380

  Hemphill, 380

  Hemphill, Judge, var. orig. with, 380

  Hemskirk, 380

  Hennepin, quoted, 44

  _Henrietta_ (syn. of Levy), 244

  Henry Clay, 380

  Henshaw, 380

  Herbert, 381

  Hermione, 381

  Hero, 381

  _Herz-Pfirsiche_ (syn. of Pavie Alberge), 434

  Hewellay, 381

  Hewellen, 381

  Hicks Seedling, 381

  High, A. H., var. orig. with, 191

  Hilard, 381

  Hilborn, 381

  Hiley, 227

  Hiley, Eugene, var. orig. with, 228

  Hill, Henry, var. orig. by, 410

  Hill Home Chief, 381

  _Hill Madeira_ (syn. of Madeira), 410

  _Hill's Chili_ (syn. of Chili), 197

  Hilton, William, quoted, 42

  Hine, Daniel, var. orig. by, 381

  Hine Seedling, 381

  Hinkley Seedling, 381

  _Hinman_ (syn. of Barber), 303

  Hlubek Lieblingspfirsich, 381

  Hobbs Early, 381

  Hobson, 381

  Hobson Choice, 382

  Hoffman, Martin, var. orig. with, 422

  _Hoffman Pound_ (syn. of Morrisania), 421

  Hoffmanns White, 382

  Hoffmans Favorite, 382

  Hoffner, 382

  _Hogg's Malacatune_ (syn. of Red Cheek Melocoton), 264

  _Hold-On_ (syn. of Geary), 367

  Holder, 382

  Holderbaum, 382

  Hollister, 382

  Holsinger, Major Frank, var. orig. by, 382

  Holsinger Salwey, 382

  Holt Early, 382

  Honest Abe, 382

  Honest John, 382

  Honey, 383

  Honey Cling, 383

  Honey Seedling, 383

  Honeywell, 383

  Honeywell, John, var. orig. by, 383

  Hoover Heath, 383

  _Hoover Late_ (syn. of Hoover Heath), 383

  _Hoover Late Heath_ (syn. of Hoover Heath), 383

  Hopes Early Red, 383

  Hopkinsville, 383

  Horton Delicious, 384

  Horton Rivers, 384

  Houpt October, 384

  _Hovey Cambridge Belle_ (syn. of Cambridge Belle), 323

  Howard, 384

  Howell Cling, 384

  Howers Frühpfirsich, 384

  Hoyte Lemon Cling, 384

  Hoyte, var. orig. with, 384

  Hubbard, I. G., var. orig. by, 196

  Hubbard Early, 384

  Hudson, 384

  Hudson November, 384

  Hughes I. X. L., 384

  Hull Athenian, 384

  Hull Late, 385

  Hulse, John, var. orig. with, 397

  Hunter, 385

  Hunter, Dr., var. orig. by, 385

  _Hunter Favorite_ (syn. of Hunter), 385

  Husman, George, var. orig. with, 297, 407

  Husted, J. D., var. orig. by, 178, 283, 350, 385, 394

  Husted Early, 385

  Husted No. 17, 385

  Husted No. 20, 385

  Husted No. 22, 385

  Husted No. 26, 385

  Husted No. 46, 385

  Husted's Seedlings, 385

  Huston Seedling, 385

  Hutchinson, 385

  Hyatt, 385

  Hybride Quétier, 385

  Hydelberg, 385

  Hynds Yellow, 385

  Hynes, 229

  Hynes, E. F., var. introduced by, 372;
    var. orig. by, 229, 367, 384, 386, 396

  Hynes Nectar, 386

  _Hynes Surprise_ (syn. of Hynes), 229

  Hyslop, David, var. introduced by, 386

  Hyslop Cling, 386

  Hyslop Favorite, 386


  Ice Mountain, 386

  Idaho Mammoth, 386

  Ikeda, quoted, 21-22

  Illinois, 230

  Imperatrice Eugenie, 386

  Imperial, 231

  Imperial (Middleton), 386

  Imperial (Pettit), 386

  Improved Pyramidal, 386

  Incomparable, 386

  Incomparable en Beauté, 387

  Incomparable Guilloux, 387

  Indian, 387

  _Indian Blood_ (syn. of Blood Cling), 187

  _Indian Blood Cling_ (syn. of Blood Cling), 187

  _Indian Blood Freestone_ (syn. of Blood Free), 314

  Indian Chief, 387

  Indian Rose, 387

  Infant Wonder, 387

  Ingold, 387

  Ingold, Alfred, var. orig. with, 387

  _Ingold Lady_ (syn. of Ingold), 387

  Ingouf, Charles, var. orig. with, 327

  Ingraham, 388

  Ingram, var. orig. by, 364

  Ireland Choice, 388

  Iron Mountain, 232

  Ironclad, 388

  Isabella, 388

  Island, 388

  Ispahan, 388

  _Ispahaner Strauchpfirsich_ (syn. of Ispahan), 388

  Italian, 388

  _Italian Dwarf_ (syn. of Dwarf Orleans), 348

  Italian Red, 388

  _Italienischer Lackpfirsich_ (syn. of Italian), 388

  Italienischer Lieblingspfirsich, 388

  Ives, John M. var. orig. by, 314

  Ives Blood Free, 388


  J. Van, 388

  J. H. Hale, 233

  Jaboulay, Armand, var. introduced by, 307;
    var. orig. with, 359

  Jack Ross, 388

  Jackson Cling, 388

  Jacques, 389

  Jacques, Colonel, var. introduced by, 389

  Jacques Late, 389

  _Jacques' Rareripe_ (syn. of Jacques), 389

  _Jacques' Yellow Rareripe_ (syn. of Jacques), 389

  Jacquet, C., var. orig. by, 308

  Jakobi-Aprikosenpfirsich, 389

  Jane, 389

  _Japan Blood_ (syn. of Japan Dwarf), 389

  _Japan Dream_ (syn. of Japan Dwarf), 389

  Japan Dwarf, 389

  _Japan Dwarf Blood_ (syn. of Japan Dwarf), 389

  Japan No. 1, 389

  Japan No. 2, 389

  Japan No. 3, 389

  Japan No. 7, 389

  Japan No. 9, 389

  Japan No. 10, 389

  Japanese Early, 390

  Japanese Wonder, 390

  _Jacques_ (syn. of Jacques), 389

  Jarle Late, 390

  _Jarle Late White_ (syn. of Jarle Late), 390

  Jarrell Late Yellow, 390

  Jarretts Late White, 390

  Jaune d'Agen, 390

  _Jaune d'Amerique?_ (syn. of American Apricot), 297

  Jaune de Barsac, 390

  Jaune de Bertholon, 390

  Jaune des Capucins, 390

  _Jaune du Comice_ (syn. of Comice d'Angers), 333

  Jaune d'Espagne, 390

  Jaune Hâtive de Doué, 390

  Jaune de Mezen, 390

  _Jaune de Romorantin_ (syn. of Romorantin), 455

  Jellico, 390

  Jenkins, H. W., var. orig. with, 342

  _Jennie_ (syn. of Jennie Worthen), 235

  Jennie Worthen, 235

  Jennings, 390

  _Jenny Lind_ (syn. of Chili), 197

  Jersey Mixon, 391

  Jersey Pride, 391

  Jersey Yellow, 391

  _Jessie Kerr_ (syn. of Kerr), 394

  Jewel, 391

  _John Haas_ (syn. of Haas), 376

  _Johnson_ (syn. of Albert Sidney), 294

  Johnson, W. E., var. orig. with, 388

  Johnson Late Purple, 391

  Jones, 391

  Jones, J. H., var. introduced by, 301, 381;
    var. orig. by, 297, 314

  Jones, S. T., var. orig. by, 391

  Jones, Thomas, quoted, 50

  Jones Cling, 391

  Jones Early, 391

  Jones Large Early, 391

  Jones No. 34, 391

  Jose Sweet, 392

  Josephine, 392

  Joyce, R. G., var. introduced by, 392

  Joys Early, 392

  Judd, 392

  Jühlke Liebling, 392

  Julia, 392

  June Beauty, 392

  June Elberta, 392

  June Rose, 392

  Juneripe, 392

  _Jungfern-Magdalene_ (syn. of Maid of Malines), 411

  _Jungfrau von Mecheln_ (syn, of Maid of Malines), 411

  Juno I, 393

  Juno II, 393


  Kalamazoo, 236

  Kallola, 393

  Kalm, Peter, brief mention of life of, 43;
    quoted, 44, 52-54

  Kalo Cling, 393

  _Kaloola Free_ (syn. of Kallola), 393

  _Kanzlerpfirsiche_ (syn. of Veritable Chancelliere), 484

  Karl Schwarzenberg, 393

  Katherine, 393

  Katie, 393

  Kay, 393

  Keene Favorite, 393

  Keevit Cling, 393

  Keith, 393

  Keith, Robert, var. orig. with, 393

  Keller, John, var. orig. by, 352

  Kelley, H. M., var. orig. by, 393

  Kelley Early, 393

  Kelly Surprise, 394

  Kelsey, Stephen, var. orig. by, 394

  Kelsey Cling, 394

  Kennard, S. J., var. orig. by, 432

  _Kennedy Carolina_ (syn. of Lemon Cling), 401

  _Kennedy Lemon Cling_ (syn. of Lemon Cling), 401

  Kenrick, John, life of, 57-58

  Kenrick, William, life of, 58;
    var. introduced by, 289

  Kenrick Clingstone, 394

  _Kenrick Heath_ (syn. of Heath Free), 226

  Kent, L. W., var. orig. with, 394

  Kent I, 394

  Kent II, 394

  Kernloser Aprikosenpfirsich, 394

  Kerr, 394

  Kerr, J. S., var. introduced by, 325

  Kerr, J. W., var. orig. by, 341, 355, 449

  _Kerr Cling No. 1?_ (syn. of Kerr Dwarf), 394

  Kerr Dwarf, 394

  Kestrel, 394

  Kew Seedling, 394

  Keyport, 395

  _Keyport White_ (syn. of Keyport), 395

  Kibby Golden, 395

  Kilbourn, 395

  Kin, Yamei, quoted, 9-10

  King Solomon, 395

  Kinnaman, Samuel, var. orig. with, 395

  Kinnaman Early, 395

  Kirkpatrick, E. W., var. orig. by, 248, 352, 381, 443

  _Kirschpfirsche_ (syn. of Cherry Peach), 327

  Kite, 395

  Kite, Robert, var. orig. with, 395

  _Kite_ (syn. of Early Cream), 349

  _Kite Honey_ (syn. of Early Cream), 349

  Kitrells Favorite, 395

  _Kleinblühender Kanzlerpfirsich_ (syn. of Chancellor), 326

  Kleine Charlestowner Ananaspfirsche, 395

  _Kleine Lieblingspfirsche_ (syn. of Petite Mignonne), 441

  Kleiner Blutpfirsich, 395

  _Kleiner lieblicher Lackpfirsich_ (syn. of Petite Mignonne), 441

  _Kleiner Rother Frühpfirsich_ (syn. of Red Nutmeg), 452

  _Kleiner weisser Frühpfirsche_ (syn. of White Nutmeg), 491

  Klondike, 395

  Kohler Cling, 396

  _Könglecher Lackpfirsich_ (syn. of Royale), 458

  _König Georgs Pfirsich_ (syn. of Royal George), 457

  _Königin Olga_ (syn. of Queen Olga), 449

  _Königliche Magdalene_ (syn. of Royal George), 457

  Knapp Castle Seedling, 396

  Knight, Thomas A., var. orig. by, 291, 296, 349, 470

  Knight Early, 396

  Knight Mammoth, 396

  Knight Markley Admirable, 396

  Knowles Hybrid, 396

  Krans, Dr., var. introduced by, 343

  Kraus 4 & 16, 396

  _Krauser Lieblingspfirsich_ (syn. of Mignonne Frizee), 418

  Krengelbacher Lieblingspfirsich, 396

  Krummel, 396

  _Krummel Late_ (syn. of Krummel), 396

  _Krummel October_ (syn. of Krummel) 396

  Kruse, var. orig. by, 396

  Kruse Kent, 396


  La Belle, 396

  La Chalonnaise, 396

  La Fleur, 396

  La Fleur, G. H., var. orig. with, 396

  La France, 397

  La Grange, 397

  La Magnifique, 397

  La Reine, 397

  La Rieva, 397

  Lacène, var. orig. with, 291

  _Lackpfirsich von Pau_ (syn. of Pau), 433

  Lady Anne Stewart, 397

  Lady Farham, 397

  Lady Lindsey, 397

  Lady Palmerston, 397

  _Lady Parham_ (syn. of Parham), 433

  Lafayette I, 397

  Lafayette II, 398

  Lafayette Free, 398

  Lakeside Cling, 398

  Lamont, 237

  Lamont, Charles, var. orig. with, 238

  Lancaster, 398

  _Lancaster Yellow Rareripe_ (syn. of Lancaster), 398

  Lansdell, Henry, quoted, 24-25

  Lane, 398

  Lane, var. orig. by, 398

  Langier, 398

  Langlicher Blutpfirsich, 398

  Lantheaume, 398

  Laporte, 398

  Laporte, A. M., var. orig. by, 398

  Larents, 398

  Large Early, 398

  Large Early Mignonne, 398

  _Large Early Mignonne_ (syn. of Frühe Mignonne), 364

  _Large Early Rareripe_ (syn. of Large York), 238

  _Large Early York_ (syn. of Large York), 238

  Large-Fruited Mignonne, 398

  _Large Newington_ (syn. of Old Newington), 429

  Large White Cling, 399

  _Large Yellow Pine Apple_ (syn. of Lemon Cling), 401

  Large York, 238

  _Largest Lemon_ (syn. of Monstrous Lemon), 420

  Larkin, D. F., var. orig. by, 399

  Larkin Early, 399

  Larkin Trophy, 399

  Last of Season, 399

  _Late Admirable_ (syn. of Royale) 458

  Late Barnard, 399

  Late Catherine, 399

  Late Crawford, 240

  Late Delaware, 399

  Late Devonian, 399

  Late Elberta, 399

  Late Free White, 399

  Late Mignonne, 399

  Late Morris White, 400

  Late October, 400

  Late Purple, 400

  Late Rareripe, 241

  _Late Rareripe Stevens_ (syn. of Stevens Late), 471

  Late Red Magdalen, 400

  _Late Red Rareripe_ (syn. of Late Rareripe), 241

  Late Robinson Crusoe, 400

  Late Rose, 400

  Late Serrate, 400

  _Late Stump_ (syn. of Stump), 277

  Late White, 400

  Late Yellow Alberge, 400

  Laura, 401

  Laura Cling, 401

  Laurenel, 401

  Laurent de Bavay, 401

  Lawrence, 401

  Lawrence, Rev. A. B., var. orig. by, 380

  Lawson, John, quoted, 45-46

  Lawton, 401

  Lawton, C. W., var. orig. by, 401

  La Page, quoted, 43-44

  Leader, 401

  Leatherbury Late, 401

  Leatherland Late, 401

  Lee, var. orig. with, 467

  _Lee_ (syn. of General Lee), 217

  _Lemon_ (syn. of Lemon Free), 243

  Lemon Cling, 401

  Lemon Clingstone (Hoyte), 402

  Lemon Free, 243

  Leny Winter, 402

  Leona, 402

  Léonie, 402

  Lenoir, 402

  Leopard, 402

  Leopold I, 402

  Leopold II, 402

  _Leopold Clingstone_ (syn. of Leopold I), 402

  _Leopold Free_ (syn. of Leopold II), 402

  _Leopold Magdalene_ (syn. of Leopold II), 402

  Lepère, 402

  Lepère, Alexis, var. orig. by, 295, 365, 485

  Leroy Winter, 403

  Levy, 44

  _Levy Late_ (syn. of Levy), 244

  Lewenau Lieblingspfirsich, 403

  Lewis, 403

  Lewis, J., var. orig. with, 446

  Lewis, N. W., var. orig. by, 403

  Libra, 403

  Liefmanns, 403

  Liermann Pfirsich, 403

  Lilard October, 403

  Lillian, 403

  Limon, 403

  Lina Hauser, 403

  _Lina Lackpfirsich_ (syn. of Lina Hauser), 403

  Lincoln, 403

  Lincoln Cling, 404

  Lindley, quoted, 11

  Lindley I, 404

  Lindley II, 404

  Lindley, J. H., var. introduced by, 233

  Lindsey, Mrs. George, var. orig. by, 397

  Linzey White, 404

  Lipscomb, 404

  Lisk, Henry, var. orig. by, 287

  Lisle, 404

  Little Anne, 404

  Lizzie, 404

  Lock Cling, 404

  _Lock Late_ (syn. of Lock Cling), 404

  Locke, William H., var. orig. by, 214

  Lockwood, 404

  Lodge, 404

  Lola, 245

  _Lolo_ (syn. of Lola), 245

  Lone Ark, 405

  Lone Tree, 405

  Long Leaved, 405

  Longhurst, 405

  Longworthy, 405

  _Longworthy Late Rareripe_ (syn. of Longworthy), 405

  Lonoke, 405

  Lord Fauconberg Mignonne, 405

  Lord Palmerston, 405

  Lorentz, 405

  Lorentz, Fred, var. orig. with, 405

  _Lorenz Mandl_ (syn. of Mandls Magdalene), 413

  Lorèze, Jamin, var. orig. with, 430

  Lottie, 406

  Loudon, 406

  _Louise_ (syn. of Early Louise), 350

  Louisiana, 406

  Lounsbury, quoted, 65

  Love All, 406

  Lovejoy Cling, 406

  Lovell, 406

  Lovell White Madison, 406

  Lovett, 406

  Lovett, J. T., var. introduced by, 475

  _Lovett White_ (syn. of Lovett), 406

  Lowes Favorite, 406

  Lowets White, 406

  Lows Large Melting, 406

  Lucia, 406

  Luizet, Gabriel, var. orig. by, 407

  Luizet Dwarf, 407

  Lulu I, 407

  Lulu II, 407

  Luton, 407

  Luton, J. T., var. orig. by, 407

  Luttichau, 407

  Luttichau, Baron H. Von, 407

  Lydon Cling, 407

  Lyendecker, J. F., var. orig. by, 331

  Lynn Lemon Cling, 407

  Lyon, 407

  Lyon, T. T., life of, 270

  Lyon Cling, 407

  _Lyon Mammoth Cling_ (syn. of Lyon Cling), 407

  Lyons, Jacob C., var. orig. with, 463


  McAllister, 407

  M'Clish, 407

  McClung, var. orig. with, 221

  McCollister, 407

  McConnell Seedling, 408

  McCormick, 408

  McCowan, Dr., var. orig. by, 408

  McCowan Cling, 408

  McCoy, Henry, var. orig. with, 408

  McCoy Free, 408

  McCoy Seedling, 408

  McDevitt, 408

  McDevitt, Neal, var. orig. with, 408

  McIntosh, 408

  McIntyre Late Free, 408

  McKay, W. L., var. introduced by, 291;
    var. orig. with, 408

  McKay Late, 408

  McKevitt, 409

  McKevitt, A., var. orig. with, 409

  McKinley, 409

  McKinnel, 409

  McKinney, 409

  McLide Seedling, 409

  McNair Late, 409

  McNeil, 409

  McNeil Early, 409

  Macon, 409

  McShaw, 409

  Madame d'Andrimont, 409

  Madame Bernède, 409

  Madame Daurel, 409

  _Madame Edouard Pynaert_ (syn. of Madame Pynaert), 410

  Madame Gaujard, 409

  Madame Malfilâtre, 410

  Madame Pynaert, 410

  Madeira, 410

  _Madeira Freestone_ (syn. of Madeira), 410

  _Madeleine Blanche_ (syn. of White Magdalen), 490

  Madeleine Blanche d'Anoot, 410

  Madeleine Blanche de Doué, 410

  Madeleine Blanche de Loisel, 410

  _Madeleine Blanche précoce_ (syn. of White Magdalen), 490

  _Madeleine du Comice_ (syn. of Comice d'Angers), 333

  _Madeleine de Courson_ (syn. of Red Magdalen), 451

  _Madeleine Dekenhoven_ (syn. of Dekenhoven Pfirsich), 341

  _Madeleine d'Ekenholen_ (syn. of Dekenhoven Pfirsich), 341

  Madeleine Hariot, 410

  _Madeleine Hâtive_ (syn. of Royal Charlotte), 457

  Madeleine Hâtive à Moyennes Fleurs, 410

  Madeleine à Mamelon, 410

  _Madeleine à moyennes fleurs_ (syn. of Royal Charlotte), 457

  Madeleine Paysanne, 410

  _Madeleine Rouge_ (syn. of Red Magdalen), 451

  Madeleine Striée, 410

  Madeleine Superbe de Choisy, 410

  Madison County Mammoth, 411

  Magdala, 411

  _Magdalen_ (syn. of White Magdalen), 490

  Magdalen Clingstone, 411

  Maggie I, 411

  Maggie II, 411

  _Maggie Burt_ (syn. of Maggie I), 411

  Magistrate, 411

  Magnifique de Daval, 411

  Magnum Bonum, 411

  Maid of Malines, 411

  _Malacatune_ (syn. of Red Cheek Melocoton), 264

  _Malacotune_ (syn. of Melocotone), 416

  Malden, 412

  Malta, 412

  Malte de Gouin, 412

  Malte de Lisieux, 412

  Malte Saint Julien, 412

  Mamie Ross, 246

  Mammoth, 412

  Mammoth Cling, 412

  Mammoth Freestone, 412

  Mammoth Golden, 412

  Mammoth Heath, 412

  Mammoth Melocoton, 413

  Man, 413

  _Mandel-Pfirsiche_ (syn. of Almond), 296

  Mandelartige Magdalene, 413

  Mandls Magdalene, 413

  Manning, 413

  Manning, Major, var. orig. with, 386

  Marcella, 413

  Marguerite, 413

  _Marie Antoinette_ (syn. of Yellow Rareripe), 289

  Marie de la Rochejaquelein, 413

  Marie Talabot, 413

  Marionville Cling, 413

  Mark Chili, 414

  Markham, 414

  Markham, W. D., var. orig. by, 414

  Marks Cling, 414

  Marlborough, 414

  Marquis of Downshire, 414

  Marquise de Brissac, 414

  Marshall, 414

  _Marshall Late_ (syn. of Marshall), 414

  Martha Fern Cling, 415

  Martindale, 415

  Martindale, var. orig. by, 415

  Marwin, Dr., var. orig. with, 250

  Mary, 415

  Mary Choice (Kerr), 415

  _Mary Choice_ (syn. of Mary), 415

  Marydel, 415

  Maryland Early, 415

  _Mascotte_ (syn. of Masicot), 415

  Masicot, 415

  Mathews, 415

  Mathews, J. C., var. orig. with, 415

  _Mathews Beauty_ (syn. of Mathews), 415

  _Matthews_ (syn. of Mathews), 415

  _Matthews Beauty_ (syn. of Mathews), 415

  Maule Early, 415

  Maurice Desportes, 416

  _May Beauty_ (syn. of St. John), 269

  May Choice, 416

  May Lee, 248

  May Peach, 416

  Mayflower, 416

  Mazères, var. orig. by, 435

  _Mellish Favorite_ (syn. of Noblesse), 427

  Melocotone, 416

  Melting, 416

  Mena, 416

  Mendenhall, 416

  Merlin, 416

  Merriam, 416

  Merriam, E., var. orig. by, 416

  Merriman, 416

  Merveille de New-York, 417

  Merveille d'Octobre, 417

  Metelka, 417

  Meyer, 417

  Meyer, Frank N., quoted, 4-6, 22, 79

  Meyer, H. F. W., var. orig. by, 417

  Meyers Rareripe, 417

  Michelin, 417

  Michigan I, 417

  Michigan II, 417

  Michigan Chili, 417

  Michigan No. 1, 417

  Michigan No. 2, 417

  Michigan No. 3, 417

  Mid September, 417

  Mid-Season Favorite, 417

  Middleton Imperial, 417

  Mifflin Pennsylvania, 417

  Mignonne (American), 417

  _Mignonne à bec_ (syn. of À Bec), 291

  Mignonne Bosselée, 417

  Mignonne Dubarle, 417

  Mignonne Frizee, 418

  Mignonne Purple, 418

  Mignonne de Saint Loup, 418

  _Mignonne Tardive_ (syn. of Late Mignonne), 399

  Mikado, 418

  Miller, 418

  Miller Brothers, var. orig. with, 474

  Miller Cling, 418

  _Miller Cling_ (syn. of Miller), 418

  Miller Orchard Company, var. introduced by, 209

  _Millet's Mignonne_ (syn. of Royal George), 457

  Millhiser, 418

  Millhiser, M., var. orig. with, 418

  Millionaire, 418

  Miner, 419

  Minerva, 419

  Minion, 419

  Minnich, Peter, C., var. orig. by, 298, 392, 411

  Minnie, 419

  _Minnie_ (syn. of Alton), 180

  Miniot, 419

  Mint Free, 419

  _Miss Lola_ (syn. of Lola), 245

  _Miss Lolo_ (syn. of Lola), 245

  Miss Mary, 419

  Miss Percival, 419

  Missouri Apricot, 419

  Missouri Beauty, 419

  Missouri Mammoth, 419

  Mitchell, 419

  Mitchell, George, var. orig. with, 447

  Mitchell Mammoth, 419

  _Mittelgrossblühende Magdalene_ (syn. of Royal Charlotte), 457

  Moas, var. orig. by, 223

  Mobray Heath Cling, 419

  Modena, 420

  Modeste, 420

  Mogneneins, 420

  Molden White, 420

  Monfrein, 420

  Monsieur Jean, 420

  _Monstreuse_ (syn. of Pavie de Pompone), 435

  _Monströse Härtling_ (syn. of Pavie de Pompone) 435

  _Monströser Lieblingspfirsich_ (syn. of Pavie de Pompone), 435

  _Monstrous of Douay_ (syn. of Orchard Queen), 430

  Monstrous Free, 420

  Monstrous Lemon, 420

  _Monstrous Pavie_ (syn. of Pavie de Pompone), 435

  _Monstrous Pomponne_ (syn. of Pavie de Pompone), 435

  _Monstrueuse de Doué_ (syn. of Orchard Queen), 430

  Monstrueuse de Saverdum, 420

  Montagne Tardive, 420

  _Montabon_ (syn. of Montauban), 420

  Montauban, 420

  Montgomery Late, 420

  Monticola, 420

  _Montigny_ (syn. of Honey), 383

  Montreal, 420

  Moore, H. K., var. orig. with, 421

  _Moore_ (syn. of Moore Favorite), 421

  Moore Favorite, 421

  Moore June, 421

  Moore Rareripe, 421

  Moore Seedling, 421

  Morel, var. orig. by, 439

  Morello, 421

  Morris, Robert, var. introduced by, 421

  _Morris Blanche_ (syn. of Morris White), 249

  Morris County, 421

  Morris Red, 421

  _Morris Red Freestone_ (syn. of Morris Red), 421

  _Morris Red Rareripe_ (syn. of Morris Red), 421

  Morris White, 248

  _Morris White Freestone_ (syn. of Morris White), 249

  _Morris White Rareripe_ (syn. of Morris White), 249

  Morrisania, 421

  _Morrisania Pound_ (syn. of Morrisania), 421

  Morton, Andrew, var. orig. by, 486

  Mother Porter, 422

  Mountain Cling, 422

  Mountain Rareripe, 422

  Mountain Rose, 250

  Mountain White, 422

  Mountaineer, 422

  Mr. Gladstone, 422

  _Mrs. Brett_ (syn. of Brett), 318

  Mrs. Huntley, 422

  Mrs. Poinsett, 422

  Mudeator, Matthew, var. orig. with, 494

  Muhlenberg, Dr. H. A., var. orig. by, 351, 353, 398

  Muir, 251

  Muir, John, var. orig. with, 252

  Munson, T. V., var. introduced by, 452, 463, 483;
    var. orig. by, 181, 296, 392, 422, 458

  Munson Cling, 422

  Munson Free, 422

  Murat, 423

  Murray, B. C., var. orig. with, 346

  Murray Malacatune, 423

  Murrays Early Anne, 423

  Muscade de Montauban, 423

  Muscogee, 423

  Musi, 423

  Musk, 423

  Müskirter Aprikosenpfirsich, 423

  Musser, 423

  Muyzerwinkel, 423

  My Choice, 423

  Myer Seedling, 423

  Myers, 423

  Myers Rareripe, 423

  Mystery, 423


  _Nain_ (syn. of Dwarf Orleans), 348

  Nain Aubinel, 424

  Nall, 424

  Nall, var. orig. with, 424

  Namaper, 424

  Nancy, 424

  Nanticoke, 424

  Napoleon, 424

  Nash, 424

  National, 424

  Native Seedling, 424

  Natural Seedling No. 81, 424

  Navar, 424

  Near, 424

  Near, John, var. orig. with, 424

  Nectar, 424

  Nectarine, 425

  Nectarine, characters and history of the, 81-85;
    explanation of the origin of the, 82-84

  Nectarines, commercial adaptability and value of, in America, 84-85

  Need, 425

  _Neige_ (syn. of Snow), 468

  Neil (Marshall), 425

  _Neils Early Purple_ (syn. of Grosse Mignonne), 375

  Nelson, 425

  Nelson Seedlings, 425

  Nesmith, J. F., var. orig. with, 456

  Nettie Corbet, 425

  Nevins, F. M., var. introduced by, 470

  New Bellegarde, 425

  _New Cut-leaved_ (syn. of Unique), 482

  New England Cling, 425

  _New Ford_ (syn. of Ford), 361

  New Globe, 425

  New Golden Purple, 425

  New Noblesse, 425

  _New Prolific_ (syn. of Prolific), 261

  _New Royal Charlotte_ (syn. of Royal Charlotte), 457

  _New Serrated_ (syn. of Unique), 482

  New White Rareripe, 426

  _New York Early_ (syn. of Smith Newington), 467

  New York Early Lemon Clingstone, 426

  _New York Rareripe_ (syn. of Large York), 238

  _New York White Cling_ (syn. of Large White Cling), 399

  _Newark Seedling_ (syn. of Niagara), 252

  Newhall, 426

  Newhall, Sylvester, var. orig. by, 426

  Newington (of America), 426

  _Newington_ (syn. of Old Newington), 429

  _Newington Magdalene?_ (syn. of Old Newington), 429

  Newman, 426

  Newman, Charles, var. orig. by, 426

  Niagara, 252

  Nicarde, 426

  Nichols, 426

  Nichols, Joseph, var. orig. with, 426

  _Nichols Orange Cling_ (syn. of Nichols), 426

  Nicholson Smock, 426

  Nicols Beauty, 426

  Nina Cling, 426

  Nivette, 426

  _Nivette Veloutée_ (syn. of Nivette), 426

  Nix, 427

  _Nix Late_ (syn. of Nix), 427

  _Nix Late Cling_ (syn. of Nix), 427

  _Nix Late White_ (syn. of Nix), 427

  _Nix October_ (syn. of Nix), 427

  Noblesse, 427

  Noblesse Early, 427

  Noblesse of Oatlands, 427

  _Noblesse Seedling_ (syn. of Alexandra), 295

  _Noblest_ (syn. of Noblesse), 427

  Noisette, var. orig. with, 316

  Nonpareil, 427

  Normand, 427

  _Normand Choice_ (syn. of Normand), 427

  North China No. 2, 427

  _Northern Apricot_ (syn. of American Apricot), 297

  Norton, G. H., var. orig. by, 344

  Norton Late, 428

  Norvell Mammoth, 428

  Norvell, Dr. H. V., var. orig. by, 428

  Norwood, quoted, 47, 64

  Novalis, 428

  Nugent, E. J., var. orig. with, 428

  Nugent June, 428

  Number 2, 428

  Number 34H, 428

  Number 83, 428

  Nutmeg, 428

  Nuttall, Thomas, quoted, 44


  Oakenfull, quoted, 65

  Oblong, 428

  O'Bryan, Cornelius, var. orig. by, 492

  Oceana, 428

  October Beauty, 428

  October Free, 428

  October White, 428

  October White Clingstone, 428

  October Yellow, 429

  _October yellow clingstone_ (syn. of Late Yellow Alberge), 400

  Octoberta, 429

  Oglethorpe, quoted, 50

  O'Gwynne, 429

  Oignies, 429

  Old English, 429

  Old Newington, 429

  Old Royal Charlotte, 429

  Old Settler, 429

  _Old Zack_ (syn. of Sites Old Zack), 466

  Olden, 429

  Olga, 429

  Oldmixon, Sir John, quoted, 50, 51;
    var. introduced by, 255

  _Oldmixon_ (syn. of Oldmixon Cling), 254

  _Oldmixon Clearstone_ (syn. of Oldmixon Free), 256

  Oldmixon Cling, 254

  Oldmixon Free, 256

  Onderdonk, 429

  Onderdonk, G., var. orig. by, 376, 429

  _Onderdonk's Favorite_ (syn. of Onderdonk), 429

  Opoix, 430

  Opulent, 257

  _Orange_ (syn. of Orange Cling), 430

  Orange Cling, 430

  Orange Free, 430

  Orange Smock, 430

  Orchard Queen, 430

  Ord, 430

  _Orfraie_ (syn. of Osprey), 431

  Oriole, 430

  Orlando, 430

  Orleance, 431

  Orleans, 431

  Orman, 431

  Oro, 431

  Orr, C. P., var. orig. by, 182

  Ortiz Cling, 431

  Oscar, 431

  _Oscar Black Prince_ (syn. of Oscar), 431

  Osceola, 431

  Osprey, 431

  Ostrander Early, 431

  Ostrander Late, 432

  Overheiser, 432

  Oviedo, 432

  Owen, 432

  Owen, J., var. orig. with, 432

  Oxford, 432

  Ozark Queen, 432


  Padley, 432

  Padley, William, var. orig. by, 432

  Page, Mrs., var. orig. with, 357

  Palestine, 432

  Pallas, 258

  _Pallas Honeydew_ (syn. of Pallas), 258

  _Palmerston_ (syn. of Lord Palmerston), 405

  Pansy, 432

  Paragon, 432

  Parfumée de Montauban, 432

  Parham, 433

  Parker, 433

  Parker, Barnes, var. orig. with, 304

  Parker, J. C., var. orig. with, 433

  Parkinson, John, quoted, 38-39, 81-82, 294, 313, 324, 347, 372, 373,
      388, 413, 428, 436, 449, 452, 459;
    varieties of peaches mentioned by, 38-39

  Parkinson, Richard, quoted, 61-63

  Parks, 433

  Parks, A. L., var. orig. with, 433

  _Parks' Cling_ (syn. of Parks), 433

  Parnell, 433

  Parnell, J. H., var. orig. by, 433

  Parson Early, 433

  Pass-Violet, 433

  Patterson, 433

  Pau, 433

  Paul Boynton, 433

  Pavie Abricotée, 434

  _Pavie Admirable_ (syn. of Incomparable), 386

  Pavie Alberge, 434

  _Pavie Alberge_ (syn. of Pavie Jaune), 434

  Pavie Alberge Jaune, 434

  _Pavie Amelia_ (syn. of Amelia), 297

  _Pavie Blanc (Gros)_ (syn. of Smith Newington), 467

  _Pavie Citron_ (syn. of Lemon Cling), 401

  Pavie Demming, 434

  Pavie Duff Jaune, 434

  Pavie Duperron, 434

  Pavie Genisaut, 434

  _Pavie Georgia_ (syn. of Exquisite), 357

  Pavie d'Italie Très Hâtif, 434

  Pavie de Jalagnier, 434

  Pavie Jaune, 434

  _Pavie Madeleine_ (syn. of Magdalen Clingstone), 411

  Pavie Mazères, 435

  Pavie Mirlicoton, 435

  Pavie Muy-Swantzel, 435

  Pavie de Pamiers, 435

  Pavie de Pompone, 435

  _Pavie rouge de Pomponne_ (syn. of Pavie de Pompone), 435

  Pavie Tardif, 435

  _Pavie Tippécanoé_ (syn. of Tippecanoe), 480

  Pavie Très-Tardif Madame Vergé, 436

  Pavien Lieblingspfirsich, 436

  Pavier Pleureur, 436

  _Pavy Royal_ (syn. of Pavie de Pompone), 435

  Payne, 436

  Payne, E. B. and Sons, var. orig. with, 436

  Peach, adaptability and variability in the, 63-67;
    age of the, in China, 8-10;
    behavior of the, in South Africa, 64-65;
    behavior of the, in South America, 65;
    care of the, in colonial times, 59-63;
    chief uses of the, 110;
    diseases of the, 169-173;
    early history of the, 1-2;
    fruit-characters of the, 14-15;
    history of the, in America, 39-57;
    history of the, in Asia, 13-25;
    history of the, in Belgium, 33-34;
    history of the, in England, 34-39;
    history of the, in Europe, 25-39;
    history of the, in France, 32-33;
    history of the, in Germany, 33-34;
    history of the, in Greece, 26;
    history of the, in Holland, 33-34;
    history of the, in Italy, 27-32;
    history of the, in Japan, 21-22;
    history of the, in Mexico, 40-41;
    history of the, in Persia, 2-4;
    history of the, in Spain, 33-34;
    history of the, in Turkestan and Persia, 22-25;
    horticultural classifications of the, 91-97;
    insects detrimental to the, 173-177;
    mention of the, by Chinese writers, 7;
    mention of the, by French writers, 32-33;
    mention of the, by Greek and Roman writers, 6-7, 26-32;
    origin of the, 2-11;
    origin of the name of the, 2;
    original habitat of the, 3-4;
    place of the, in the genus Prunus, 68-70;
    relationship of the, to the almond, 11-13, 69-70, 80;
    tree- and fruit-characters of the, 71-77;
    uses of the wood of the, 117

  Peach-acreage in New York, 132-133;
    -areas in New York, 131-132;
    -brandy, commercial value of, 116;
    -breeding, discussion of, 130;
    -culture, where started in America, 40;
    -flowers, value of, in classification, 75-76;
    -fruits, value of, in classification, 76;
    -growing, commercial beginning of, in America, 98-99;
      commercial development of, in the South, 101;
      commercial development of, in Connecticut, 101;
      development of, in New York, 101-102;
      development of, in Ohio, 102-103;
    -industry, climatic conditions affecting the, 133-143;
      development of the, in Michigan, 103;
      extent of the, in Delaware, 99-100;
      magnitude of the, in the United States, 109-110;
      profit derived from the, 100-101

  Peach-leather, how made, 116;
    use of, 116
    -orchard, care of the, 152-159;
      planting the, 153;
    -orchards, fertilizers best suited for, 155-156;
      intercropping of, 153-154;
      locations and sites for, 144-147;
      use of cover-crops in, 154-155;
    -production, tabulated report of, in the United States, 104-105;
    -products, 109-119;
    -stones, uses and value of, 116-117;
    -tree, ornamental forms of the, 79;
    -trees, number of, in New York, 131;
    -varieties, blooming dates of, 138-142;
      season of ripening of, 138-142;
    -yellows, discussion of, 118-130;
      first notice of, 118-119;
      magnitude of, 118;
      ravages of, in Delaware, 127-129;
      ravages of, in New England, 125;
      ravages of, in New Jersey, 122-123;
      ravages of, in New York, 123-125;
      ravages of, in the Central States, 125-127;
      regions first affected by, 120-122;
      symptoms and means of combatting, 169-171

  Peaches, American, characters of, 20-21;
    canning of, as an industry, 110-112;
    Chinese, illustrations of the fruit-characters of, 15-20;
    classification of, by aid of glands, 73-75;
    classification of, by Onderdonk, 92-96;
    costs in the production of, 166-169;
    discussion of six varieties of, by Pliny, 28-30;
    distribution of, from New York, 163-166;
    early plantings of, in Florida, 42;
    evaporation of, as an industry, 112-116;
    first colonial plantation of, 46;
    grading and marketing of, 161-163;
    harvesting of, 159-161;
    history of, in New England, 56-57;
    history of, in New York, 54-55;
    history of, in Pennsylvania, 51-54;
    history of, in Virginia, 46-51;
    history of, in the colonies, 46-57;
    history of, in the South, 41-46;
    Indian, characters and history of, 41-46;
    key to varieties of, 96-97;
    new types of, 105-109;
    North China group of, 105-106;
    ornamental value of, 117-118;
    Peento group of, 108-109;
    practice of budding, when started, 57-59;
    pruning of, 156-159;
    soils for, 143-144;
    South China group of, 107-108;
    standard varieties of, 153;
    stocks and the propagation of, 147-152;
    types of, 66-67;
    varieties of, mentioned by Gerarde, 36;
    varieties of, mentioned by Parkinson, 38-39

  Peach de Pavie, 436

  Peach du Troas, 436

  Pearce, 436

  Pearce, P. S., var. orig. by, 436

  Pearl I, 436

  Pearl II, 436

  Pears, Baron, var. orig. by, 304

  Pearson, 259

  Pearson, var. orig. by, 436

  Pearson, J. M., var. orig. with, 260

  Pearson No. 1, 436

  Pêche Baboud, 436

  Pêche de Bisconte, 437

  Pêche Blonde, 437

  Pêche de Brahy, 437

  _Pêche Cerise_ (syn. of Cherry Peach), 327

  Pêche Everardt, 437

  _Pêche de Genes_ (syn. of Genueser), 368

  Pêche Grosse Violette, 437

  Pêche d'Ile, 437

  Pêche d'Ispahan, 437

  _Pêche d'Italie_ (syn. of Italian), 388

  Pêche Jaune Hâtive de Doné, 437

  Pêche de Lion, 437

  _Pêche du New-Jersey_ (syn. of Stump), 277

  Pêche du Quesnoy, 437

  Pêche Quetier, 437

  Pêche Reine des Tardives, 437

  Pêche Rouge de Mai, 437

  Pêche de Sainte-Anne, 438

  _Pêche de Sernach_ (syn. of Sernach), 464

  Pêche Souvenir de Pierre Tochon, 438

  Pêche de Syrie, 438

  _Pêche du Teissier_ (syn. of Teissier), 477

  Pêche Théophile Sueur, 438

  Pêche Tondu, 438

  Pêche de Trianon, 438

  Pêche de Vérone, 438

  Pêche de Verviers, 438

  _Pêche de Vigne_ (syn. of Sanguine de Jouy), 460

  Pêche de Vigne Blanche, 438

  Pêche de Vigne Jaune, 438

  Pêche de Vigne Rouge, 438

  Pêche Vineuse Jaune, 439

  Pêcher à Bois Jaune, 439

  Pêcher Douteux, 439

  Pêcher à Fleur Semi-Double, 439

  _Pêcher à Fleurs Doubles_ (syn. of Pêcher à Fleur Semi-Double), 439

  _Pêcher à Fleurs et à Fruits Blancs_ (syn. of White Blossom), 490

  _Pêcher à fleurs frisée_ (syn. of Mignonne Frizee), 418

  Pêcher Hâtif de Chine, 439

  Pêcher Hybride Quétier, 439

  Pêcher Nain à Fleur Double, 439

  Pêcher Nain d'Orléans, 439

  Pêcher Petite Madeleine, 439

  _Pêcher Pleureur_ (syn. of Pavier Pleureur), 436

  Pêcher Thuret, 440

  Peck Orange Cling, 440

  Peento, 260

  Pendleton, 440

  Penelope, 440

  Penhallow, P. D., quoted, 122-123

  Peninsula, 440

  _Peninsula Yellow_ (syn. of Peninsula), 440

  Penn, William, quoted, 51

  Pennington, 440

  Peregrine, 440

  Perfection, 440

  Period Early Nutmeg, 440

  _Persée_ (syn. of Persique), 440

  Persia, fruit species from, 2

  Persian Cling, 440

  _Persica Davidiana_ (syn. of _P. Davidiana_), 85

  _Persica flore pleno_, 37

  _Persica laevis_ (syn. of _P. persica_), 77

  _Persica lutea_, 37

  _Persica nucipersica_ (syn. of _P. persica_), 77

  _Persica platycarpa_ (syn. of _P. persica_), 77

  _Persica praecocia_, 37

  _Persica vulgaris_ (syn. of _P. persica_), 77

  Persique, 440

  _Persique Clingstone_ (syn. of Persique), 440

  _Persischer Lackpfirsich_ (syn. of Persique), 440

  Peruvianischer Blutpfirsich, 441

  Pesca Mandorla, 441

  Pesca Melo, 441

  Peter Cling, 441

  Peters, Richard, quoted, 118-119, 120

  _Petit Imperial Mammoth White_ (syn. of Petite Imperial), 441

  _Petit's Imperial_ (syn. of Petite Imperial), 441

  Petite Bourdine, 441

  Petite Imperial, 441

  Petite Mignonne, 441

  Petite Pavie d'Ounous, 441

  Petite Violette Hâtive, 441

  Pettingill Early, 442

  Pfirsich-Nectarine, 442

  Pfirsiche mit Nicht Ablöslichem Stein, 442

  Pfirsiche von Pau, 442

  Phfleiger, 442

  Phillips, Joseph, var. orig. with, 442

  Phillips, Dr. M. W., var. orig. by, 355, 366

  _Phillips_ (syn. of Phillips Cling), 442

  Phillips Cling, 442

  Piasa, 442

  Pickett, 442

  Picquet, Antoine, var. orig. with, 442

  Picquet Late, 442

  Piel Pfirsich, 442

  Pierce Seedling, 442

  Pignutt Late, 443

  Pinckney, 443

  _Pine Apple Clingstone_ (syn. of Lemon Cling), 401

  Pineapple, 443

  _Pineapple Clingstone_ (syn. of Pineapple), 443

  Pingree, 443

  Pitmaston Seedling Noblesse, 443

  Plant, 443

  _Plant Cling_ (syn. of Plant), 443

  _Platt Pfirsich_ (syn. of Peento), 261

  Pliny, quoted, 26, 28-31

  Plowden, 443

  Pocahontas, 443

  Poinsett, 443

  Pond Late, 443

  Pond Seedling, 443

  _Pool Favorite_ (syn. of Poole Large Yellow), 443

  Poole Island, 443

  Poole Large Yellow, 443

  Porpree, 444

  Port Royal, 444

  Porter, 444

  Portugal, 444

  _Portugiesische Pfirsche_ (syn. of Portugal), 444

  Potomac Heath, 444

  Pound Hardy, 444

  _Pourpre Dorée_ (syn. of Golden Purple), 370

  Pourpre de Frogmore, 444

  _Pourprée_ (syn. of Porpree), 444

  _Pourprée à bec_ (syn. of À Bec), 291

  Pourprée du Grand-Jardin, 444

  Pourprée Hâtive, 444

  _Pourprée Hâtive_ (syn. of Early Purple), 351

  Pourprée Joseph Norin, 444

  Pourprée Tardive de Lyon, 444

  _Pourprée tardive à petites fleurs?_ (syn. of Late Purple), 400

  Powell, 444

  _Powell's Mammoth_ (syn. of Powell), 444

  Powers September, 445

  Prächtige von Choisy, 445

  _Prachtvolle Apricosenpfirsich_ (syn. of Yellow Admirable), 495

  Prachtvolle Blutpfirsich, 445

  Prado, 445

  Präsident Griepenkerl, 445

  _Präsidenten-Lackpfirsich_ (syn. of President), 446

  Prater, G. E., var. orig. by, 370, 392

  Pratt, 445

  Précoce de Bagnolet, 445

  Précoce de Beauregard, 445

  Précoce de Bonpas, 445

  Précoce de Chartreuse, 445

  Précoce de Croncels, 445

  Précoce Gaudin, 445

  _Précoce de Hale_ (syn. of Hale Early), 223

  Précoce de Mezen, 445

  Précoce du Périgord, 445

  _Précoce Rivers_ (syn. of Rivers), 266

  Précoce de Saint-Assicle, 445

  Precocious, 446

  Premier, 446

  President, 446

  President Church, 446

  President Lyon, 446

  Preston, 446

  Preston, var. orig. with, 446

  Price, 446

  Price, quoted, 94

  Pride of Autumn, 446

  Pride of Franklin, 446

  Pride of Idaho, 447

  Pride of Northboro, 447

  Prince, William, life of, 108-109;
    quoted, 121;
    var. orig. by, 239, 447

  Prince, William Robert, quoted, 122, 123;
    var. introduced by, 358, 432, 435, 456;
    var. orig. by, 357

  _Prince_ (syn. of Late Rareripe), 242

  Prince Blood Clingstone, 447

  Prince Climax, 447

  Prince Eugène, 447

  Prince John, 447

  Prince Late Yellow Freestone, 447

  _Prince Red Rareripe_ (syn. of Late Rareripe), 241

  Prince of Wales, 447

  _Prince's Excelsior_ (syn. of Excelsior), 357

  _Prince's Paragon_ (syn. of Paragon), 432

  _Princess_ (syn. of Princess of Wales), 448

  Princess Paragon, 447

  Princess of Wales, 448

  _Princesse de Galles_ (syn. of Princess of Wales), 448

  Princesse Marie, 448

  _Prinz Eugen_ (syn. of Prince Eugène), 447

  _Prinz von Wales_ (syn. of Prince of Wales), 448

  _Prinzessin Marie von Württemberg_ (syn. of Princesse Marie), 448

  _Prinzessin von Wales_ (syn. of Princess of Wales), 448

  Prize, 448

  Probst Friedrich Pfirsich, 448

  Professeur Vilaire, 448

  Prolific, 261

  Proudfoot, 448

  Proudfoot, Dr., var. orig. with, 448

  Prunus, pubescent-fruited species of, from the United States, 90-91

  _Prunus andersonii_, habitat of, 90

  _Prunus Davidiana_, characters of, 85;
    origin and dissemination of, 85-86;
    specific description of, 87-88;
    value of, as a stock, 87, 148;
    value of, in hybridization, 87-88

  _Prunus eriogyna_, habitat of, 90

  _Prunus fasciculata_, habitat of, 90

  _Prunus havardii_, habitat of, 91

  _Prunus maritima_, use of, as a stock, 149

  _Prunus microphylla_, habitat of, 91

  _Prunus minutiflora,_ habitat of, 91

  _Prunus mira_, characters of, 88-89;
    cultivation of, in America, 90;
    origin of, 89-90;
    specific description of, 89-90

  _Prunus nana_, 87

  _Prunus persica_, 14, 94;
    characters of, 77-78;
    botanical and pomological division of, 78-81;
    importance of, 68

  _Prunus Persica_ var. _Davidiana_ (syn. of _P. Davidiana_), 85

  _Prunus Persica_ var. _laevis_ (syn. of _P. persica_), 77

  _Prunus Persica_ var. _necturina_ (syn. of _P. persica_), 77

  _Prunus Persica_ var. _nucipersica_ (syn. of _P. persica_),  77

  _Prunus Persica_ var. _platycarpa_ (syn. of _P. persica_), 77

  _Prunus Persica_ var. _vulgaris_ (syn. of _P. persica_), 77

  _Prunus persica potanini_ (sub-species of _P. persica_), 79

  _Prunus subcordata_, use of, as a stock, 149

  _Prunus texana_, 90

  Pry Favorite, 448

  _Pucelle de Malines_ (syn. of Maid of Malines), 411

  Pullen, 448

  Pullen, Isaac, var. orig. by, 448, 484

  _Pullen's Seedling_ (syn. of Pullen), 448

  Purdy, 448

  _Purple Alberge_ (syn. of Alberge), 293

  Purple Peach, 448

  Pyramidal, 449


  Quaker, 449

  Quality, 449

  Queen, 449

  Queen Caroline, 449

  Queen of Delaware, 449

  Queen Olga, 449

  Queen of the South, 449

  Queenes, 449

  Quetier, 449

  Quétier, var. orig. by, 437, 439

  Quince, 449

  Quisenburg, James, var. orig. by, 383


  _R. E. Lee_ (syn. of General Lee), 217

  R. S. Stevens, 449

  Radclyffe, 450

  Ragan, Z. S., var. orig. by, 450

  Ragan Smock, 450

  Ragan Yellow, 450

  Rainbow, 450

  Raisin, 450

  Rambouillet, 450

  Ramsey, A. M., var. orig. by, 450

  Ramsey, F. T., var. introduced by, 372;
    var. orig. with, 450, 463

  Ramsey Early Cling, 450

  Ramsey Late, 450

  Ranck, 450

  Ranck, Martin A., var. orig. with, 450

  _Rareripe Jaune_ (syn. of Yellow Rareripe), 289

  _Rareripe Rouge Tardive_ (syn. of Late Rareripe), 242

  Ray, 262

  Ray, D., var. orig. with, 263

  Ray, Dr. H., var. orig. by, 451

  _Ray_ (syn. of Raymond Cling), 451

  Raymaekers, 450

  _Raymaekers' Magdalene_ (syn. of Raymaekers), 450

  Raymond Cling, 451

  Rea, John, quoted, 312, 332, 364, 388, 420, 421, 423, 424, 431, 449

  Read Seedling, 451

  Reagan, 451

  Red Bird, 451

  Red Ceylon, 451

  _Red Cheek_ (syn. of Red Cheek Melocoton), 264

  _Red Cheek Malacatune_ (syn. of Red Cheek Melocoton), 264

  _Red Cheek Malacotan_ (syn. of Red Cheek Melocoton), 264

  Red Cheek Melocoton, 264

  Red Magdalen, 451

  Red Nectarine, 452

  Red Nutmeg, 452

  Red Peach, 452

  Red Rareripe, 452

  _Red Rareripe_ (syn. of Morris Red), 421

  Red River, 452

  Red Seedling, 452

  Redding, 452

  Reed, 453

  _Reed Early Golden_ (syn. of Reed), 453

  Reeks, 453

  Reeves, 265

  Reeves, Samuel, var. orig. with, 265

  _Reeves' Favorite_ (syn. of Reeves), 265

  _Reeves' Late_ (syn. of Reeves), 265

  Reeves Mammoth, 453

  Regan Pride, 453

  Regel, Albert, quoted, 23-24

  _Reid_ (syn. of Weeping), 489

  Reid, E. W., var. introduced by, 405

  Reid, William, var. orig. with, 489

  _Reid's Weeping_ (syn. of Weeping), 489

  Ren, 453

  Rendatler, 453

  Reuinsiela, 453

  Rey, 453

  Rey, Jean, var. orig. by, 309, 469

  Reynolds, 453

  Reynolds, W. M., quoted, 52

  Richardson Mammoth, 453

  Richmond, 453

  Rickets, 453

  Ricketts, Joseph H., var. introduced by, 318

  Riehl, E. A., var. orig. with, 465

  Riehl, E. H., var. orig. with, 230

  Riepper, 454

  _Riesenpfirsche_ (syn. of Pavie de Pompone), 435

  Rigaudière, 454

  Ringold, 454

  _Ringold Mammoth Cling_ (syn. of Ringold), 454

  Rival, 454

  River Bank, 454

  Rivers, 266

  Rivers, Thomas, quoted, 11;
    var. orig. by, 267, 293, 295, 305, 333, 338, 339, 343, 345, 346,
      348, 350, 352, 358, 369, 370, 371, 375, 394, 397, 398, 405, 411,
      425, 431, 440, 442, 447, 448, 450, 454, 463, 479

  Rivers Early York, 454

  _Rivers' Frühe_ (syn. of Rivers), 266

  Robena, 454

  Robert, 454

  Robert Lavallée, 454

  Roberta, 455

  Robertson, 455

  Robin, Besy, var. orig. by, 311

  Robinson, Joseph J., var. introduced by, 388

  Robinson, W. P., var. orig. by, 200, 386

  Robinson Crusoe, 455

  Rochester, 268

  Rockey, 455

  Rockey, J. W., var. introduced by, 455

  Rodgers, 455

  Rodman Red, 455

  _Rodman's Cling_ (syn. of Rodman Red), 455

  Rogers, var. orig. with, 455

  Rogers, Daniel E., var. orig. with, 288

  Rogers, Lloyd N., var. orig. with, 345

  Rogers I, 455

  Rogers II, 455

  Roman, 455

  Romorantin, 455

  Romorantin à Chair Rouge, 455

  Ronde de Vallabrêques, 456

  Rose, Preston, var. orig. with, 351

  _Rose_ (syn. of Strawberry), 472

  Rose Aromatic, 456

  Rosebank, 456

  Rosedale, 456

  Rosen-Magdalene, 456

  Rosenburg Cling, 456

  Roser, 456

  Roseville, 456

  _Roseville Cling_ (syn. of Roseville), 456

  Ross, Captain A. J., var. orig. with, 247

  Rossanna, 456

  _Rossanne_ (syn. of Alberge), 293

  _Rote Frühpfirsich_ (syn. of Red Nutmeg), 452

  _Rote Magdalenenpfirsich_ (syn. of Red Magdalen), 451

  _Rothe Frühpfirsche von Troyes_ (syn. of Red Nutmeg), 452

  _Rothe Magdalene_ (syn. of Red Magdalen), 451

  _Rother Aprikosenpfirsch_ (syn. of Alberge), 293

  _Rouge de Mai_ (syn. of Briggs), 319

  Round Transparent, 456

  _Roussaine_ (syn. of Rossanna), 456

  Roussane Berthelane, 457

  Roussanne Nouvelle, 457

  _Royal_ (syn. of Teton de Venus), 478

  _Royal Ascot_ (syn. of Marquis of Downshire), 414

  Royal Charlotte, 457

  Royal George, 457

  Royal George Clingstone, 457

  Royal George Mignonne, 457

  _Royal Kensington_ (syn. of Grosse Mignonne), 375

  Royal Vineyard, 458

  Royale, 458

  Royale de Barsac, 458

  _Rozanna_ (syn. of Rossanna), 456

  Rüdiger Starhemberg, 458

  Ruding Late, 458

  _Rumbolion_ (syn. of Rumbullion), 458

  Rumbullion, 458

  Rumph, L. A., var. orig. by, 183

  Rumph, Samuel H., var. orig. by, 210

  Runde Feine Durchsichtige, 458

  Runyon, var. orig. with, 458

  Runyon Orange Cling, 458

  Rupley, 458

  _Russel No. 1_ (syn. of Russell), 459

  Russell, 459

  Russell, J. M., var. orig. by, 459

  Russell No. 3, 459

  Russet, 459

  Russian, 459

  Rust, var. orig. by, 478

  Rutter, 459

  Rutter, quoted, 100-101, 122


  S. G. French, 459

  Safranpfirsch (syn. of Alberge), 293

  _St. Ascycles_ (syn. of Précoce de Saint-Assicle), 445

  Saint Barthélemy, 459

  Saint Catherine, 459

  St. Clair, 459

  Saint Fagus, 459

  _Saint George_ (syn. of Smock), 274

  St. Helena, 459

  Saint James, 459

  St. John, 269

  St. Joseph Yellow Rareripe, 459

  St. Louis, 460

  _Saint Marguerite_ (syn. of Marguerite), 413

  Saint Marie, 460

  St. Mary, 460

  St. Michael, 460

  Sallie Worrell, 460

  Sallville, 460

  _Salway_ (syn. of Salwey), 271

  Salwey, 271

  Sanders, 460

  Sanders, L. T., var. introduced by, 213, 362

  _Sanftfarbige_ (syn. of Teindoux), 477

  Sangmel, 460

  Sanguine, 460

  _Sanguine Cardinale_ (syn. of Cardinale), 324

  _Sanguine à gros fruit_ (syn. of Grosser Blutpfirsich), 375

  _Sanguine Grosse Admirable_ (syn. of Prachtvolle Blutpfirsich), 445

  Sanguine de Jouy, 460

  Sanguine de Manosque, 461

  _Sanguine à petit fruit_ (syn. of Kleiner Blutpfirsich), 395

  Sanguinole, 461

  Sanguinole Melting, 461

  Sanguinole Pitmaston, 461

  _Sanguinolente_ (syn. of Sanguinole), 461

  Sargent, 461

  Sargent, Daniel, var. orig. with, 461

  _Sargent's Rareripe_ (syn, of Sargent), 461

  _Saunders_ (syn. of Sanders), 460

  Savart, var. orig. by, 445

  Savoy, 461

  Sawyer, 461

  Scaff, J. D., var. orig. by, 322

  _Scarlet_ (syn. of Sanguinole), 461

  Scarlet Admirable, 462

  Scarlet Anne, 462

  _Scarlet Nutmeg_ (syn. of Red Nutmeg), 452

  Scattergood, H. V., var. orig. by, 474

  _Scattergood No. 1_ (syn. of Superior Late), 474

  Scheuster Choice, 462

  Schieski, 462

  Schley, 462

  Schlomer Early, 462

  Schlössers Frühpfirsich, 462

  Schmidberger Pfirsich, 462

  _Schmidberger's Magdalene_ (syn. of Schmidberger Pfirsich), 462

  _Schnabel Pfirsich_ (syn. of À Bec), 291

  _Schnellwachsender Lieblingspfirsich_ (syn. of Spring Grove), 470

  Schofields Seedling, 462

  Schofields White, 462

  _Schöne von Beauce_ (syn. of Belle Beausse), 307

  _Schöne von Doué_ (syn. of Belle de Doué), 308

  _Schöne Jersey Pfirsich_ (syn. of Unique), 482

  _Schöne Kanzlerin_ (syn. of Veritable Chancelliere), 484

  _Schöne Magdalene_ (syn. of Belle et Bonne), 308

  Schöne Pavie, 462

  _Schöne Peruvianische_ (syn. of Chevreuse), 328

  _Schöne Toulouserin_ (syn. of Belle de Toulouse), 309

  Schöne von Vilvorde, 462

  Schöne Wächterin, 462

  _Schöne aus Westland_ (syn. of Schöne von Westland), 462

  Schöne von Westland, 462

  Schöner Peruanischer Lackpfirsich, 462

  _Schöner peruanischer Lackpfirsich_ (syn. of Chevreuse), 328

  _Schöner von Vitry_ (syn. of Belle de Vitry), 309

  Schumaker, 273

  Schumaker, Michael, var. orig. with, 273

  Schuyler, Eugene, quoted, 24

  Scott, 462

  _Scott_ (syn. of Scott October), 463

  _Scott Cling?_ (syn. of Scott October), 463

  Scott October, 463

  Scotts Early Red, 463

  Scotts Magnate, 463

  Scotts Nectar, 463

  _Scotts Nonpareil_ (syn. of Nonpareil), 427

  Scruggs, 463

  Sea Eagle, 463

  Seiders, 463

  Selby Cling, 463

  Sellers, S. A., var. orig. with, 463

  Sellers Cling, 463

  Sellers Free, 463

  _Sellers' Golden Cling_ (syn. of Sellers Cling), 463

  Semis de Madeleine, 464

  Semis de Pêche d'Egypte, 464

  Semis de Plowden, 464

  Sener, 464

  Sernach, 464

  _Serrate Early York_ (syn. of Early York), 206

  Serrate Ispahan, 464

  Shalcross, J. W., var. orig. by, 295

  _Shanghae_ (syn. of Chinese Cling), 198

  _Shanghai_ (syn. of Chinese Cling), 198

  Shannon Cling, 464

  Sharpe, var. orig. by, 464

  Sharpe No. 1, 464

  Sharpe No. 2, 464

  Sharpe No. 3, 464

  Shaw Mammoth, 464

  Sheester, 464

  Shelby, 464

  Shepherd Early, 464

  Sherfey, Raphael, var. orig. by, 464

  Sherfey Early, 464

  Sherman October, 464

  Shinn, James, var. orig. with, 464

  Shinn Rareripe, 464

  Shipler, 465

  Shipler, A. L., var. orig. by, 465

  Shipley, 465

  Shipley Rareripe, 465

  _Shipley's Late Red_ (syn. of Shipley), 465

  Shockley Early, 465

  _Shoemaker's Seedling_ (syn. of Schumaker), 273

  Shop, 465

  Siebolt, 465

  Sieulle, 465

  Sill, 465

  Sill, W. H., var. orig. with, 465

  Silvan Seedling, 465

  _Silver_ (syn. of Early Silver), 352

  Silver Medal, 465

  Simms, 465

  Simon, 465

  Sims, 466

  _Sion_ (syn. of Double Mountain), 344

  Sites Old Zack, 466

  Skinner Superb, 466

  Slane, 466

  Slappey, 466

  Sleeper, W. W., var. orig. with, 466

  Sleeper Dwarf, 466

  Slindon Park, 466

  Sloan Carolina, 466

  Slocum Early, 466

  _Small White_ (syn. of Small White Magdalen), 466

  Small White Magdalen, 466

  Smeigh, 466

  Smeigh, Daniel, var. orig. by, 466

  Smith, 466

  Smith, Calvin, var. orig. by, 467

  Smith, Captain John, quoted, 46-47

  Smith, Dr., var. orig. by, 370

  Smith, W. W., var. orig. by, 350, 367

  Smith Favorite, 467

  Smith Indian, 467

  Smith Newington, 467

  Smithson, 467

  Smock, 274

  Smock, var. orig. with, 274

  _Smock Freestone_ (syn. of Smock), 274

  Smooth-Leaved Royal George, 467

  Smoothstone, 467

  Smyrna, 467

  Sneed, 467

  Sneed, John F., var. introduced by, 371

  Sneed, Judge John L. T., var. orig. with, 467

  Snow, 468

  _Snow_ (syn. of Snow Cling), 468

  _Snow_ (syn. of Snow Orange), 468

  Snow Cling, 468

  Snow Favorite, 468

  Snow Orange, 468

  Sobiesky Lieblingspfirsich, 468

  Solomon, 468

  Soulard Cling, 468

  Southern Early, 468

  Southwick, 468

  Southwick, T. T., var. orig. with, 468

  _Southwick's Late_ (syn. of Southwick), 468

  Souvenir de Gérard Galopin, 469

  Souvenir de Java, 469

  Souvenir de Jean-Denis Couturier, 469

  Souvenir de Jean Rey, 469

  Spanish, 469

  _Spanish Clingstone_ (syn. of Spanish), 469

  Späte Mignot Pfirsich, 469

  _Späte Purpurfarbige Pfirsiche_ (syn. of Late Purple), 400

  Später Lackpfirsich, 469

  _Später peruanischer Lackpfirsich_ (syn. of Chevreuse Tardive), 328

  _Später purpurrothe Lackpfirsich_ (syn. of Late Purple), 400

  Spath Seedling, 469

  Spence, 469

  _Spitze Galand Pfirsich_ (syn. of Galande Pointue), 366

  Spottswood, 470

  Spring Grove, 470

  Squaw, 470

  Stacy, Mahlon, quoted, 51

  Staley, 470

  Staley, S. L., var. orig. by, 373

  Standish, var. orig. by, 348

  Stanley, 470

  _Stanley Late_ (syn. of Chili), 197

  Stanwick Early York, 470

  Stark Brothers, var. introduced by, 392, 470, 494;
    var. orig. by, 354

  Stark Early Elberta, 470

  Stark Heath, 470

  Stayman, Dr. J., var. orig. with, 313

  Steadley, 471

  Stearns, 471

  Stearns, J. N., var. orig. with, 236, 471

  Steele, 471

  Steele, Dr. M., var. orig. with, 471

  Stenson October, 471

  Stephenson, Thomas, var. orig. by, 471

  Stephenson Cling, 471

  Stetson, 471

  Stetson, N., var. orig. with, 471

  Stevens, 275

  Stevens, B., var. orig. with, 276

  Stevens, R. S., var. orig. with, 449

  Stevens Late, 471

  _Stevens Rareripe_ (syn. of Stevens), 275

  _Stevenson's Oct._ (syn. of Stevens Late), 471

  _Stewards Late Galande_ (syn. of Chancellor), 326

  Stewart, A., var. orig. by, 466

  Stewart No. 1, 471

  Stewart No. 2, 471

  Stickler Cling, 471

  Stiles, 472

  Stiles, Dr. E. P., var. orig. with, 472

  Stilson, 472

  Stinson, 472

  _Stinson Late_ (syn. of Stinson), 472

  _Stinson October_ (syn. of Stinson), 472

  Stirling Castle, 472

  Stone, 472

  Stoner, G. W., var. introduced by, 322

  _Stonewall_ (syn. of Stonewall Jackson), 472

  Stonewall Jackson, 472

  Storm, James A., var. orig. by, 472

  Storm No. 1, 472

  Stranahan, 472

  _Stranahan's Late Orange_ (syn. of Stranahan), 472

  Strawberry, 472

  Stroman, var. orig. with, 297

  Strong, 473

  Strout Early, 473

  Strunk, 473

  Strunk, W. P., var. orig. by, 473

  Stuart, 473

  Stubenrauch, J. W., var. orig. by, 193, 246, 363, 404, 463, 481

  Studt, 473

  Stump, 276

  _Stump-of-the-World_ (syn. of Stump), 277

  _Stump the World_ (syn. of Stump), 276

  Sturtevant, 473

  Sturtevant, E. T., var. orig. by, 473

  Suber, 473

  Suber, var. orig. by, 473

  Success, 473

  Sugar (syn. of Chili), 197

  Sulhamstead, 473

  Summer Snow, 278

  Sumner Early, 474

  Sumner White Free, 474

  Sunrise, 474

  Sunset, 474

  _Superb Royal_ (syn. of Grosse Mignonne), 375

  Superbe de Choisy, 474

  Superbe de Trévoux, 474

  Superior Late, 474

  Sure Crop, 475

  Surpasse, 279

  Surpasse Bon Ouvrier, 474

  _Surpasse Melocoton_ (syn. of Surpasse), 279

  Surprise, 474

  Surprise de Jodoigne, 474

  Surprise de Pellaine, 474

  Surties, 475

  Surties, var. orig. by, 356, 475

  Susquehanna, 475

  Swainson Black, 475

  Swalsh, 475

  _Swalze_ (syn. of Swalsh), 475

  Swann Free, 475

  Sweet, 475

  Sweet, M. E., var. orig. by, 475

  Sweet Water, 475

  Swick Wonder, 476

  Switzerland, 476

  Sylphide, 474

  _Sylphide Cling_ (syn. of Sylphide), 474

  Sylvester, Dr. E. W., var. orig. by, 300, 453

  _Syrische Pfirsich_ (syn. of Pêche de Syria), 438


  Taber, 476

  Taber, G. L., var. introduced by, 201, 298, 360, 397, 460;
    var. orig. by, 231, 332, 359, 476

  Tacker, 476

  Tacker, J. W., var. orig. by, 476

  Tallman No. 1, 476

  Tallman No. 2, 476

  Tallman No. 3, 476

  Tante Mélanie, 476

  Tarbell, 476

  Tarbell, C. H., var. orig. by, 476

  Tardive d'Avignon, 476

  Tardive d'Auvergne, 476

  Tardive Béraud, 476

  Tardive Chevallier, 476

  Tardive de Gros, 476

  Tardive des Lazaristes, 477

  _Tardive d'Oullins_ (syn. of La Grange), 397

  _Tardive des Mignots_ (syn. of Späte Mignot Pfirsich), 469

  Tardive du Mont d'Or, 477

  Tardive de Montauban, 477

  Tardive de Passebel, 477

  _Tardive de Ward_ (syn. of Ward Late), 487

  Tausch, 477

  _Tausch's Lieblingspfirsich_ (syn. of Tausch), 477

  Taylor, 477

  Taylor, Dr. Thomas, var. orig. by, 454

  Tecumsa, 477

  _Teindou_ (syn. of Teindoux), 477

  Teindoux, 477

  _Teint-Doux_ (syn. of Teindoux), 477

  Teissier, 477

  Teissier, var. orig. with, 477

  Temple Late, 477

  _Temple White_ (syn. of Temple Late), 477

  Tennessee, 478

  Tennessee Everbearing, 478

  Terrel, 478

  Teter, Rev. J. G., var. orig. by, 478

  _Teton Venus_ (syn. of Teton de Venus), 478

  Teton de Venus, 478

  Texan, 478

  Texas, 478

  _Texas King_ (syn. of Texas), 478

  Thames Bank, 478

  Thissell, G. W., var. introduced by, 252;
    var. orig. by, 406, 479

  Thissell Free, 479

  _Thissell White_ (syn. of Thissell Free), 479

  Thomas, David, life of, 55-56;
    var. orig. with, 490

  Thomas, George, var. orig. by, 480

  Thomas, John J., quoted, 56, 124;
    var. introduced by, 479, 490

  Thomas Burns, 479

  Thomas November, 479

  Thomas Rivers, 479

  Thompson, 479

  Thompson, James W., quoted, 128

  Thompson Orange, 479

  Thoytes, Mrs., var. orig. with, 473

  Thurber, 280

  Thuret, Gustave, var. orig. by, 376, 440

  Tice, 479

  Tice, James, var. orig. by, 479

  _Tice's Late Red and Yellow_ (syn. of Tice), 479

  Tiebout, 479

  Tiebout, V. J., var. orig. with, 479

  Tillotson, 479

  _Tillotson Précose_ (syn. of Tillotson), 479

  Tinley October, 480

  Tippecanoe, 480

  Tipton, W. K., var. introduced by, 401

  Tirlemonter Magdalene, 480

  Titus, 480

  Titus, Mrs. Sarah, var. orig. with, 480

  Todd, Rev. R. W., var. orig. by, 363

  Toledo, 480

  _Toledo Prolific_ (syn. of Toledo), 480

  Tonbridge, 480

  Tong Pa, 480

  Topaz, 480

  Toquin, 480

  Tornado, 481

  Toughina, 481

  Towns, Mrs., var. orig. by, 481

  Towns Early, 481

  Townsend, 481

  Transparente Ronde, 481

  _Trauerpfirsich_ (syn. of Pavier Pleureur), 436

  Triana, 281

  _Triomphe_ (syn. of Triumph), 282

  _Triomphe Saint-Laurent_ (syn. of Triomphe de Saint-Laurent), 481

  Triomphe de Saint-Laurent, 481

  Triumph, 282

  Troth, 283

  _Troth's Early_ (syn. of Troth), 283

  _Troth's Early Rareripe_ (syn. of Troth), 283

  _Troth's Early Red_ (syn. of Troth), 283

  Troy, 481

  Trueblood Late Free, 481

  Tuckahoe, 481

  Tufts, Bernard, var. orig. by, 481

  Tufts, E., var. orig. by, 481

  Tufts Early, 481

  Tufts Rareripe, 481

  Turenne, 481

  _Turenne Améliorée_ (syn. of Turenne), 481

  Turner, quoted, 36

  _Tuscan Cling_ (syn. of Tuskena), 482

  Tuskena, 482

  _Tuskena Cling_ (syn. of Tuskena), 482

  _Tuteon de Venice_ (syn. of Teton de Venus), 478

  Twenty-Ounce Cling, 482

  Twyford, 482

  Tyehurst, 482

  Tyehurst, E., var. orig. with, 482


  Ulatis, 482

  Unique, 482

  Unnamed Chinese, 483

  _Unvergleichlich Schöne_ (syn. of Unvergleichlicher
      Lieblingspfirsich), 483

  Unvergleichlicher Lieblingspfirsich, 483

  Utah Cling, 483

  Utah Free, 483


  Vagaloggia Cotogna, 483

  Vainqueur, 483

  Valdy, 483

  Valdy, var. orig. by, 483

  Van Buren, J., var. orig. by, 483

  Van Buren Golden Dwarf, 483

  Van Deman, 483

  Van Deman, H. E., var. orig. with, 483

  Van Deman Early, 483

  Van Lindley, J., var. introduced by, 446;
    var. orig. with, 404

  Van Orlé, var. introduced by, 402

  Van Zandt, 484

  Van Zandt, R. B., var. orig. with, 484

  _Van Zandt's Superb_ (syn. of Van Zandt), 484

  Vandermark, 484

  Vanderveer Optimum, 484

  Vanguard, 484

  Vanmeter, 484

  Variegated Free I, 484

  Variegated Free II, 484

  Veitch, var. introduced by, 348

  Veitch, Messrs., var. orig. by, 399

  _Veloutée de Piémont_ (syn. of Grosse Mignonne), 375

  _Venusbrust_ (syn. of Teton de Venus), 478

  Vergil, quoted, 27

  Veritable Chancelliere, 484

  _Véritable Pourprée hâtive à grande fleur_ (syn. of Early Purple), 351

  Verona, 484

  Verte de Beaulieu, 484

  Very Large Seedling Peach, 484

  Vessier, 485

  Victor, 485

  Victoria, 485

  _Victoria_ (syn. of Early Victoria), 352

  Vilmorin, 485

  Vineuse de Fromentin, 485

  Vineuse Hâtive, 485

  Vinous Purple, 485

  Violet Hâtive, 485

  Violet Muscat, 486

  Violet Musk, 486

  _Violette Galande_ (syn. of Galande), 365

  _Violette Hâtive_ (syn. of Violet Hâtive), 485

  Violette de Montpellier, 486

  Violetter Aprikosenpfirsich, 486

  Voorheis No. 1, 486

  Voorheis Silver, 486

  _Virginia_ (syn. of Columbia), 333


  Waddell, 284

  Waddell, William, var. orig. with, 285

  Wager, 286

  Wager, Benjamin, var. orig. with, 286

  Wake Forest, 486

  Walburton, 486

  _Walburton Admirable_ (syn. of Walburton), 486

  Waldo, 486

  Walker, 486

  Walker, H. R., var. introduced by, 484

  Walker Early, 487

  _Walker's Variegated Free_ (syn. of Walker), 486

  Wallace, 487

  Wallen, var. orig. with, 268

  Waller, 487

  Waller Brothers, var. orig. by, 487

  Wallis, Henry, var. orig. with, 487

  Wallis Best, 487

  Wallis Heath Free, 487

  Walter Early, 487

  Ward, Dr. A., var. orig. by, 487

  Ward Late, 487

  _Ward's Freestone_ (syn. of Ward Late), 487

  _Ward's Late Free_ (syn. of Ward Late), 487

  Ware, 488

  Ware, W. W., var. orig. with, 490

  Wark, 488

  Wark, James, var. orig. by, 488

  Warren, William G., quoted, 122

  Washington, 488

  Washington, quoted, 49

  Washington Clingstone, 488

  _Washington Rareripe_ (syn. of Washington), 488

  _Washington Red Freestone_ (syn. of Washington), 488

  Waterloo, 287

  Watkin Cling, 488

  Watkin Early, 488

  Waugh, F. A., quoted, 95

  Weaver, 488

  Weaver, D. W., var. orig. by, 488

  Weber, R. H., var. orig. by, 488

  Weber Golden Free, 488

  Weber Prize, 488

  Webster, Captain Daniel, var. orig. by, 387

  Weed, 488

  Weed, George, var. orig. with, 488

  Weeping, 489

  Weihnachts-Aprikosenpfirsich, 489

  _Weinhafte Fromentinerpfirsche_ (syn. of Vineuse de Fromentin), 485

  _Weiniger Lieblingspfirsich_ (syn. of Early Purple), 351

  Weisse Charlotte, 489

  _Weisse Frühpfirsche_ (syn. of White Nutmeg,) 491

  _Weisser Härtling_ (syn. of Smith Newington), 467

  Welch, 489

  Welch, Charles B., var. introduced by, 489

  Weld, Eben, var. orig. by, 489

  Weld Freestone, 489

  Wellington, 489

  West, 489

  Westbrook, C. W., var. introduced by, 460

  Western Newington, 489

  Whaley, Mark, var. orig. by, 489

  Whaley Favorite, 489

  Wheatland, 288

  Wheatley, 489

  Wheatstone, 489

  Wheeler Early, 489

  Wheeler Late, 490

  Wheeler Late Yellow, 490

  White, W. S., var. orig. with, 481

  White Ball, 490

  White Blossom, 490

  _White Blossomed Incomparable_ (syn. of White Blossom), 490

  White Cling, 490

  White Double Crop, 490

  _White English_ (syn. of Heath Cling), 225

  White Globe, 490

  White Imperial, 490

  White July, 490

  White June, 490

  White Magdalen, 490

  White Monsieur, 491

  White Nectarine, 491

  White Nutmeg, 491

  White Pace, 491

  _White Rareripe_ (syn. of Morris White), 248;
    (syn. of Nivette), 426

  White Winter, 491

  Whitehead Red Heath, 491

  Whitlow, W. H., var. orig. with, 491

  Whitlow Choice, 491

  Wiard, 491

  Wiard, Harry, var. orig. with, 491

  Wickson, quoted, 113-115

  Wiggins, 492

  Wilbur, 492

  Wilcox, Deacon Pitman, var. orig. with, 197

  Wilder, 492

  _Wilder Blutpfirsich_ (syn. of French Blood Cling), 363

  Wiley, H. S., var. introduced by, 384

  Wilkins, 492

  Wilkins, Colonel, var. orig. with, 492

  Wilkins, Edward, quoted, 122

  _Wilkins Cling_ (syn. of Wilkins), 492

  Willard, 492

  Willard, S. D., var. orig. with, 492

  _Willermoz_ (Early Crawford), 205

  Willett, 492

  Williams, 492

  Williams, J. F., var. orig. by, 492

  Williams Catherine, 492

  Williams Cling, 492

  Williams Early Purple, 492

  _Williams New York?_ (syn. of Large White Cling), 399

  Williamson, 492

  Williamson, David, var. orig. by, 399

  _Williamson Choice_ (syn. of Williamson), 492

  Williamson Cling, 493

  Willow-Leaf, 493

  Willson, 493

  Willson, Pierpont, var. orig. with, 493

  Wilson, 493

  Wilson, E. H., quoted, 89-90

  Windoes, 493

  Wine, 493

  Winesburgh Large Yellow, 493

  Winifred, 493

  Winnepesaukee, 493

  Wirt Lady, 493

  Witham Seedling, 493

  Woburn Early Mignonne, 493

  Woerner, 493

  Wonderful, 493

  Wood, Allen L., var. introduced by, 296, 494

  Wood, C. W., var. orig. by, 496

  Wood, Ira L., var. orig. by, 313

  Woodlawn Golden, 494

  Woodman Choice, 494

  Woolsey, 494

  _Woolsey Nebraska_ (syn. of Woolsey), 494

  Worcester, 494

  Worcester, Dr. J. Warren, var. orig. by, 494

  World Fair, 494

  Worrell, Mrs. Sallie, var. orig. by, 460

  _Worrell_ (syn. of Sallie Worrell), 460

  Worth, 494

  Worthen, var. orig. with, 235

  _Worthen_ (syn. of Jennie Worthen), 235

  Wright, 494

  Wright, var. orig. with, 323

  Wright, Charles, var. introduced by, 493

  Wright, W. F., var. orig. by, 494

  Wright Seedling, 494

  _Wunderschöner Lackpfirsche_ (syn. of Admirable), 292

  Wyandotte Cling, 494

  Wylie, John, var. orig. by, 494

  Wylie Cling, 494


  XX Yellow, 495


  Yates Early, 495

  Yates Red Cling, 495

  Yazoo, 495

  Yellow Admirable, 495

  _Yellow Alberge_ (syn. of Alberge), 293

  _Yellow Alberge Clingstone_ (syn. of Pavie Alberge), 434

  Yellow Apricot, 495

  Yellow August, 495

  _Yellow Blanton Cling_ (syn. of Blanton Cling), 313

  Yellow Chance, 495

  Yellow Chevreuse, 495

  _Yellow Cobbler_ (syn. of Cobbler), 331

  Yellow Extra, 495

  Yellow Globe, 495

  _Yellow Malacatune_ (syn. of Red Cheek Melocoton), 264

  Yellow Mignonne, 495

  _Yellow Mystery_ (syn. of Mystery), 423

  Yellow Nutmeg, 496

  Yellow Peach, 496

  Yellow Preserving, 496

  Yellow Rareripe, 289

  Yellow Rose, 496

  _Yellow St. John_ (syn. of St. John), 269

  Yellow Seedling, 496

  Yellow Swan, 496

  _Yellow Tuscany_ (syn. of Tuskena), 482

  Yenshi, 496

  _Yenshi Hardy_ (syn. of Yenshi), 496

  Yocum, 496

  York Pearl, 496

  _York Précoce_ (syn. of Early York), 206

  Yulu, 496

  Yum Yum, 496


  Zane, 496

  _Zartgefärbter Lackpfirsich_ (syn. of Teindoux), 477

  Zea, 497

  Zelhemer Lieblingspfirsich, 497

  Zelia, 497

  Zell, 497

  Zella, 497

  Zipf Seedling, 497

  Zoar Beauty, 497

  _Zwergpfirsich_ (syn. of Dwarf Orleans), 348


  FOOTNOTES:

  [209] Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 450-456. 1914.

  "_Trays for Drying._--The fruit is placed upon trays for exposure to
  the sun. There is great variation in the size of the trays. The common
  small tray is made of one-half inch sugar-pine lumber two feet wide and
  three feet long, the boards forming it being held together by nailing
  to a cleat on each end, one by one and a quarter inches, and a lath or
  narrow piece of half-inch stuff is nailed over the ends of the boards,
  thus stiffening the tray and aiding to prevent warping.

  A large tray which is used by some growers is four feet square, and is
  made of slats three-eighths of an inch thick, and one and a half inches
  wide, the slats being nailed to three cross slats three-eighths of an
  inch thick and three inches wide, and the ends nailed to a narrow strip
  one-half inch thick by three-quarters of an inch wide on the other side.

  Since large drying yards have been supplied with tramways and trucks
  for moving the fruit instead of hand carriage, larger trays, three
  feet by six or three feet by eight, have been largely employed. These
  tramways lead from the cutting sheds to the sulphur boxes and thence to
  various parts of the large drying grounds, making it possible to handle
  large amounts of fruit at a minimum cost.

  _Protecting Fruit from Dew._--In the interior there are seldom any
  deposit of dew in the drying season but occasionally there are early
  rains before the drying season is over. The fruit is then protected by
  piling the trays one upon another, in which operation the thick cleats
  serve a good purpose. In dewy regions the trays are piled at night, or
  cloth or paper is sometimes stretched over the fruit, thus reducing the
  discoloration resulting from deposits of moisture upon it.

  _Drying Floors._--For the most part the trays are laid directly on
  the ground, but sometimes a staging of posts and rails is built to
  support them, about twenty inches from the ground. The drying trays are
  sometimes distributed through the orchard or vineyard, thus drying the
  fruit with as little carrying as possible. Others clear off a large
  space outside the plantation and spread the trays where full sunshine
  can be obtained. Drying spaces should be selected at a distance from
  traveled roads, to prevent the deposit of dust on the fruit * * *.

  _Grading._--It is of great advantage in drying to have all the fruit on
  a tray of approximately the same size, and grading before cutting is
  advisable. Machines are now made which accomplish this very cheaply and
  quickly.

  _Cutting-Sheds._--Shelter of some kind is always provided for the
  fruit-cutters. Sometimes it is only a temporary bower made of poles
  and beams upon which tree branches are spread as a thatch; sometimes
  open-side sheds with boarded roof, and sometimes a finished fruit-house
  is built, two stories high, the lower story opening with large doors
  on the north side, and with a large loft above, where the dried fruit
  can be sweated, packed, and stored for sale. The climate is such that
  almost any shelter which suits the taste of the purse of the producer
  will answer the purpose.

  _Sulphuring._--The regulations promulgated under the pure food law
  enacted by Congress in 1906 established an arbitrary limit to the
  percentage of sulphur compounds in evaporated fruits, which was shown
  by producers to be destructive to their industry, and otherwise
  unwarranted and unreasonable. As a result of their protest the
  enforcement of such regulations was indefinitely postponed, pending the
  results of scientific investigation which began in 1898.

  From the point of view of the California producer it must be held
  that before the employment of the sulphur process, California cured
  fruits were suitable only to the lowest culinary uses. They were of
  undesirable color, devoid of natural flavor, offensive by content
  of insect life. They had no value which would induce production and
  discernible future. Placing the trays of freshly cut fruit in boxes or
  small 'houses,' with the fumes of burning sulphur, made it possible to
  preserve its natural color and flavor during the evaporation of its
  surplus moisture in the clear sunshine and dry air of the California
  summer. It also prevented souring, which with some fruits is otherwise
  not preventable in such open air drying, and it protected the fruit
  from insect attack during the drying process. By the use of sulphur
  and by no other agency has it been possible to lift the production of
  cured fruits of certain kinds from a low-value haphazard by-product
  to a primary product for which Californians have planted orchards,
  constructed packing houses and made a name in the world's markets.

  The action of sulphuring is not alone to protect the fruit, it
  facilitates evaporation so that about one-half less time is required
  therefor. Not the least important bearing of this fact is the
  feasibility of curing fruits in larger pieces. The grand half-peaches,
  half-apricots, half-pears of the California cured fruits are the
  direct result of the sulphur process. Without it the fruit must be cut
  into small sections or ribbons, which in cooking break down into an
  uninviting mass, while, with the sulphuring, it is ordinary practice
  to produce the splendid halves with their natural color so preserved
  that they lie in cut glass dishes in suggestive semblance to the finest
  product of the canners, and are secured at a fraction of the cost.

  There are various contrivances for the application of sulphur fumes to
  the freshly-cut fruit. Some are small for hand carriage of trays; some
  are large and the trays are wheeled into them upon trucks. The most
  common is a bottomless cabinet about five or six feet high, of a width
  equal to the length of the tray and a depth a little more than the
  width of the tray. The cabinet has a door the whole width of one side,
  and on the sides within cleats are nailed so that the trays of fruit
  slip in like drawers into a bureau. Some push in the trays so that the
  bottom one leaves a little space at the back, the next a little space
  at the front, and so on, that the fumes may be forced by the draft to
  pass between the trays back and forward. The essentials seem to be open
  holes or dampers in the bottom and top of the cabinet so that the fumes
  from the sulphur burning at the bottom may be thoroughly distributed
  through the interior, and then all openings are tightly closed. To
  secure a tight chamber the door has its edge felted and the cabinet is
  made of matched lumber. The sulphur is usually put on a shovel or iron
  pot, and it is ignited by a hot coal, or a hot iron, or it is thrown
  on paper of which the edges are set on fire, or a little alcohol is
  put on the sulphur and lighted, etc. The sulphur is usually burned
  in a pit in the ground under the cabinet. The application of sulphur
  must be watchfully and carefully made, and the exposure of the fruit
  should only be long enough to accomplish the end desired. The exposure
  required differs for different fruits, and with the same fruits in
  different conditions, and must be learned by experience.

  _Grading and Cleaning._--After the fruit is sufficiently dried (and it
  is impossible to describe how this point may be recognized except by
  the experienced touch), it is gathered from the trays in to large boxes
  and taken to the fruit house. Some growers put it into a revolving drum
  of punctured sheet iron, which rubs the pieces together and separates
  it from dust, etc., which falls out through the apertures as the drum
  revolves. Others empty the fruit upon a large wire-cloth table and pick
  it over, grading it according to size and color, and at the same time
  the dust and small particles of foreign matter fall through the wire
  cloth. The fanning mill for cleaning grain may also be used for rapid
  separation of dirt, leaves, etc., with proper arrangement of metal
  screens.

  _Sweating._--All fruit, if stored in mass after drying, becomes moist.
  This action should take place before packing. To facilitate it, the
  fruit is put in piles on the floor of the fruit house and turned
  occasionally with a scoop shovel; or, if allowed to sweat in boxes,
  the fruit is occasionally poured from one box to another. The sweating
  equalizes the moisture throughout the mass. Some large producers have
  sweat-rooms with tight walls, which preserve an even temperature. No
  fruit should be packed before 'going through the sweat.' If this is not
  done, discoloration and injury will result.

  _Dipping before Packing._--All fruits except prunes can be packed in
  good condition without dipping, provided the fruit is not over-dried.
  Efforts should be made to take up the fruit when it is just
  sufficiently cured to prevent subsequent fermentation. If taken from
  the trays in the heat of the day and covered so that the fruit moth can
  not reach it there is little danger of worms. The highest grades of
  fruit are made in this way. If, however, the fruit has been over-dried
  or neglected, it can be dipped in boiling water to kill eggs of vermin
  and to make the fruit a little more pliable for the press. The dipping
  should be done quickly, and the fruit allowed to drain and then lie in
  a dark room, carefully covered, for twenty-four hours before packing.

  _Packing._--To open well, packages of dried fruit should be 'faced.'
  The many fine arts of paper lining, etc., must be learned by
  observation. Flatten some fair specimens of the fruit to be packed (and
  reference is especially made to such fruits as apricots, peaches and
  nectarines) by running them through a clothes wringer or similar pair
  of rollers set to flatten but not crush the fruit. Do not face with
  better fruit than the package is to contain. It is a fraud which will
  not in the end be profitable. Lay the flattened fruit (cup side down)
  neatly in the bottom of the box. Fill the box until it reaches the
  amount the box is to contain, and then apply the press until the bottom
  can be nailed on. Invert the box and put on the label or brand; the
  bottom then becomes the top.

  Many different kinds of boxes are used. A very good size is made of
  seasoned pine, six inches deep by nine inches wide by fifteen inches
  long, inside measurements, and it will hold twenty-five pounds of
  fruit. * * *

  _Peaches._--Take the fruit when it is fully ripe, but not mushy; cut
  cleanly all around to extract the pit and put on trays cup side up; get
  into the sulphur box as soon as possible after cutting. Peaches are
  dried both peeled and unpeeled, but drying without peeling is chiefly
  done. Peeling is done with the small paring machines or with a knife.
  Peeling with lye has been generally abandoned because of discoloration
  of the fruit after packing, although it can be successfully done by
  frequently changing the lye and using ample quantities of fresh water
  for rinsing after dipping.

  Clingstone peaches are successfully handled with curved knives and
  spoon-shaped pitters in conjunction with ordinary fruit knives.
  Different styles are carried at the general stores in the fruit
  districts, and individuals differ widely in their preferences.

  The weight of dried peaches which can be obtained from a certain
  weight of fresh fruit, depends upon the variety; some varieties
  yield at least a third more than others, and clings yield more than
  freestones as a rule. Dry-fleshed peaches, like the Muir, yield one
  pound dry from four or five pounds fresh, while other more juicy fruits
  may require six or seven pounds.

  _Nectarines._--Nectarines are handled like peaches; the production of
  translucent amber fruit in the sun depends upon the skillful use of
  sulphur."

  [210] _U. S. D. A. Yearbook_ 505. 1912.

  [211] Information supplied by letter.

  [212] Smith, Erwin F. _U. S. D. A. Div. of Bot. Bul._ No. =9=:17,
  18. 1888.

  This reference as well as most of those that follow, was found
  in Bulletin 9, Division of Botany, United States Department of
  Agriculture, the most complete account we have of peach-yellows,
  whether of historical facts or of natural history.

  [213] Smith, Erwin F. _U. S. D. A. Div. of Bot. Bul._ No. =9=:18,
  19. 1888.

  [214] Smith, Erwin F. _U. S. D. A. Div. of Bot. Bul._ No. =9=:19.
  1888.

  [215] _Ibid._ 19. 1888.

  [216] Coxe, Wm. _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 215-217. 1817.

  [217] Prince, Wm. _Treat. Hort._ 14, 15. 1828.

  [218] _Report of U. S. Com. Patents_ 242. 1851.

  [219] _Am. Pom. Soc. Rept._ 81. 1852.

  [220] Rutter _Cult. & Diseases of the Peach_ 70. 1880.

  [221] _Horticulturist_ =1=:318. 1846.

  [222] _Am. Farmer_ 100-102. 1875.

  [223] _Peach Yellows, Houghton Farm Experiment Department Ser. 3._ No.
  =2=:27-28. 1882.

  [224] _Horticulturist_ 503. 1849.

  [225] _N. Y. Farmer and Hort. Repository_ 46. 1831.

  [226] _Cultivator_ 255. 1844.

  [227] _Can. Hort._ 15-16. 1878.

  [228] _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 275. 1880.

  [229] _U. S. D. A. Condition of Growing Crops_ August. 1887.

  [230] _Ibid._

  [231] _N. Y. Farmer and Hort. Repository_ 9. 1831.

  [232] Yoemans, John L. _Rpt. of U. S. Com. of Patents_ 166. 1852.

  [233] _Conn. Bd. Agr. Rpt._ 169. 1867.

  [234] _Ibid._ 173.

  [235] _Trans. Mass. Hort. Soc._ Pt. =1=:140. 1882.

  [236] _Houghton Farm Exp. Dept._ Ser. 3. No. =2=:27. 1882.

  [237] _Proc. Am. Pom. Soc._ 212. 1854.

  [238] _Rpt. U. S. Com. Patents_ 369. 1851.

  [239] _Ibid._ 378.

  [240] Smith, Erwin F. _U. S. D. A. Div. of Bot. Bul._ =9=:42. 1888.

  [241] _Ibid._ 45.

  [242] _Cult. & Count. Gent._ 765. 1877.

  [243] _Ibid._ 275.

  [244] _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 274. 1880.

  [245] Gulley, A. G. _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 249. 1878.

  [246] Ramsdell, J. G. _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 306. 1882.

  [247] Lannin, Joseph _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 11. 1884.

  [248] Black, John J. _Cult. Peach & Pear_, 81. 1886.

  [249] _Cultivator_ 167. 1843.

  [250] _Horticulturist_ 37. 1846.

  [251] Dunlap, Dr. F. S. _U. S. D. A. Div. of Bot. Bul._ No.
  =9=:57. 1888.

  [252] Smith, Erwin F. _U. S. D. A. Div. of Bot. Bul._ No. =9=:61.
  1888.

  [253] Smith, Erwin F. _U. S. D. A. Div. of Bot. Bul._ No.
  =9=:68-79. 1888.

  [254] Welsh, F. S. _Letter_ June 9, 1916.

  [255] For a full report of this investigation see the Report of the New
  York State Fruit-Growers Association 180-187. 1908.

  [256] Hedrick, U. P. _N. Y. Sta. Bul._ =299=: 1908.

  [257] Goff, E. S. _Gard. & For._ =9=:448. 1896.

  [258] Welsh, F. S. and Anderson, E. H. _The Marketing of New York State
  Peaches_ 5. 1916.

  [259] Welsh, F. S. and Anderson, E. H. _The Marketing of New York State
  Peaches_ 5. 1916.

  [260] _Ibid._ 6-7. 1916.

  [261] For a brief history of William Prince, the first, and his
  contributions to American pomology, the reader is referred to _The
  Plums of New York_, page 389.

  [262] For a brief history of the life and horticultural activities of
  Andrew Jackson Downing, whose likeness is shown in the frontispiece of
  _The Peaches of New York_, the reader is referred to _The Cherries of
  New York_, page 244.

  [263] _The Plums of New York_ is dedicated to William Robert Prince
  through the likeness shown of him in the frontispiece. A brief history
  of his life is given on page 21 of _The Grapes of New York_ and
  reprinted on page 24 of _The Plums of New York_.

  [264] _Fruit Trees_, published in 1817 by William Coxe, is the first
  American pomology. Though written by an amateur, during most of his
  life a merchant, his work was done with so much care and exhibits
  such nice discrimination in selecting, describing and discussing
  varieties of fruits that until the later and more complete work of
  Andrew Jackson Downing and Charles Downing, Coxe's _Fruit Trees_,
  competing with several other manuals, was the standard pomological work
  of America. William Coxe was born in Philadelphia, May 3, 1762, and
  died near Burlington, New Jersey, February 25, 1831. He seems to have
  inherited wealth and with it scholarly habits and such refinement and
  charm of personality that in Philadelphia and later in Burlington, to
  which place he removed in early manhood, he was one of the leaders in
  literary, scientific and social circles. His tastes early led him to
  the cultivation of fruit and he began to grow the varieties then to
  be had in America and to import sorts from England and France so that
  by 1817 he was able to say that he had been "for many years actively
  engaged in the rearing, planting and cultivating fruit trees on a
  scale more extensive than has been attempted by any other individual
  in this country." Previous to this for some years, how long cannot be
  said, he was the moneyed partner with one Daniel Smith in what, for the
  times, was an extensive fruit-tree and ornamental nursery. Demands for
  information became so frequent that he determined to put his knowledge
  in print and his _Fruit Trees_ was the result. The objects he sought to
  obtain in writing are well set forth in the title page as follows: "A
  VIEW of the CULTIVATION of FRUIT TREES, and the Management of Orchards
  and Cider; with Accurate Descriptions of the Most Estimable Varieties
  of NATIVE AND FOREIGN APPLES, PEARS, PEACHES, PLUMS, AND CHERRIES,
  Cultivated in the Middle States of America; Illustrated by Cuts of
  two hundred kinds of Fruits of the natural size; Intended to Explain
  Some of the errors which exist relative to the origin, popular names,
  and character of many of our fruits; to identify them by accurate
  descriptions of their properties, and correct delineations of the full
  size and natural formation of each variety; and to exhibit a system of
  practice adapted to our climate, in the Successive Stages of A NURSERY,
  ORCHARD, AND CIDER ESTABLISHMENT." He was at one time a member of the
  State Legislature and later a Congressman intimately associated with
  Daniel Webster. He was, also, an honorary member of the Horticultural
  Society of London to which during many years he was a faithful
  correspondent. It was Coxe's privilege to see the very beginnings
  of commercial peach-growing in America and through his nursery, his
  orchard and his book he contributed much to American peach-culture.

  [265] Theodatus Timothy Lyon, fruit-grower, experimenter and writer,
  was for many years the leading pomological authority of his adopted
  State, Michigan. T. T. Lyon, as he always signed his name, was
  born in Lima, New York, January 13, 1813, and died in South Haven,
  Michigan, February 6, 1900. At the age of fifteen he moved with his
  parents to Michigan where until his thirty-first year, in 1844, he
  worked at most of the arts and crafts practiced by pioneers in a new
  country. In the year named, he began the career of horticulturist,
  by planting a nursery at Plymouth, Michigan. In the nearby regions
  French missionaries had early planted orchards and old settlers had
  long been importing varieties of fruit. The nomenclature of these
  fruits was in uttermost confusion. T. T. Lyon set himself the task
  of ascertaining the correct names of these varieties in the old
  settlements of the State. The result was he became the pomological
  authority of the State. In 1874 Mr. Lyon moved to the famous
  "_peach-belt_" of western Michigan, where he lived until his death.
  Here, at first, he was president of a prominent nursery company. In
  1876 he was elected president of the State Horticultural Society and
  continued as its active president until 1891 and from then on until
  his death was honorary president. In 1888 T. T. Lyon wrote a _History
  of Michigan Horticulture_ which was published in the Seventeenth
  Report of the State Horticultural Society. From the beginning of
  his interests in horticulture in southwestern Michigan Mr. Lyon was
  particularly interested in peaches--growing seedlings, testing new
  varieties, planting orchards and in every way helping to forward the
  great peach-industry of the region. He was probably, in his time,
  the best informed, the most accurate and the most critical judge of
  peaches in this country. In 1889 he was given charge of the South
  Haven Sub-station of the Michigan Experiment Station which gave him
  added facilities for studying and describing fruits and a means of
  publishing, through his connection with the Experiment Station,
  bulletins on fruits. These, for accuracy of description of varieties,
  are still unsurpassed among American pomological publications. Besides
  these bulletins, the fruit-lists in the reports of the Michigan
  Horticultural Society and in the American Pomological Society, during
  the last half of the Nineteenth Century, show the results of his
  accurate judgment of fruits. A modest man, shrinking from publicity,
  his printed works but poorly represent his vast knowledge of fruits and
  his great influence in the betterment of American pomology.


[Transcriber's Note:

Page 144, "but appear he peach-growers" was changed to read "but appear
to peach-growers".

Page 373, "Hazelhurst, Mississippi" changed to read "Hazlehurst,
Mississippi".

Page 530, "Pavie Genisant" was changed to read "Pavie Genisaut".

Inconsistent spelling and hyphenation are as in the original.]





End of Project Gutenberg's The Peaches of New York, by U. P. Hedrick

